The texture reading was rendered in real The texture reading was rendered in real time on the GPU with what I believe to time on the GPU with what I believe to time on the GPU with what I believe to be a new technique. be a new technique. be a new technique. Like other more recent approaches, this Like other more recent approaches, this Like other more recent approaches, this technique operates on glyph curves technique operates on glyph curves technique operates on glyph curves directly in the shader. directly in the shader. directly in the shader. As such, it has no issue handling As such, it has no issue handling As such, it has no issue handling arbitrary zoom. Compared to signed distance approaches, Compared to signed distance approaches, this technique works really well with this technique works really well with this technique works really well with glyphs that have lots of curves. glyphs that have lots of curves. glyphs that have lots of curves. Note the preservation of thin features Note the preservation of thin features Note the preservation of thin features even under some extreme perspective. In this video, I'll talk about the In this video, I'll talk about the theory of how this algorithm operates, theory of how this algorithm operates, theory of how this algorithm operates, give some comparisons with other give some comparisons with other give some comparisons with other techniques that exist currently, techniques that exist currently, techniques that exist currently, talk a bit about the math, the talk a bit about the math, the talk a bit about the math, the background that you need to implement background that you need to implement background that you need to implement it, it, it, and you can totally do this on your own. and you can totally do this on your own. and you can totally do this on your own. I started this project a few weeks ago I started this project a few weeks ago I started this project a few weeks ago when I was working on a new UI layout when I was working on a new UI layout when I was working on a new UI layout engine for the game engine that I'm engine for the game engine that I'm engine for the game engine that I'm working on. working on. working on. Even though I've been a graphics Even though I've been a graphics Even though I've been a graphics engineer for a long time, normally when engineer for a long time, normally when engineer for a long time, normally when it comes to text rendering, I just take it comes to text rendering, I just take it comes to text rendering, I just take any of the texture sampling approaches any of the texture sampling approaches any of the texture sampling approaches and call it a day. and call it a day. and call it a day. I wanted to be a bit more ambitious this I wanted to be a bit more ambitious this I wanted to be a bit more ambitious this time, though. time, though. time, though. The texture sampling and signed distance The texture sampling and signed distance The texture sampling and signed distance field approaches excel when it comes to field approaches excel when it comes to field approaches excel when it comes to performance and simplicity. performance and simplicity. performance and simplicity. Rendering textured quads is sort of the Rendering textured quads is sort of the Rendering textured quads is sort of the bread and butter of most UI rendering, bread and butter of most UI rendering, bread and butter of most UI rendering, after all. after all. after all. Where these approaches really struggle, Where these approaches really struggle, Where these approaches really struggle, though, is memory. though, is memory. though, is memory. Even though signed distance approaches Even though signed distance approaches Even though signed distance approaches let you get away with lower resolution let you get away with lower resolution let you get away with lower resolution textures, you still need a good amount textures, you still need a good amount textures, you still need a good amount of memory to preserve detail under high of memory to preserve detail under high of memory to preserve detail under high levels of magnification. levels of magnification. levels of magnification. Multi-channel signed distance fields Multi-channel signed distance fields Multi-channel signed distance fields help preserve more detail, but again, at help preserve more detail, but again, at help preserve more detail, but again, at the expense of increased memory. the expense of increased memory. the expense of increased memory. Quality can be situationally good, Quality can be situationally good, Quality can be situationally good, provided their glyph quads are snapped provided their glyph quads are snapped provided their glyph quads are snapped to pixels in the case of grayscale to pixels in the case of grayscale to pixels in the case of grayscale textures. textures. textures. Signed distance fields produce less Signed distance fields produce less Signed distance fields produce less objectionable aliasing, but can lose objectionable aliasing, but can lose objectionable aliasing, but can lose feature clarity. feature clarity. feature clarity. On the versatility side, traditionally On the versatility side, traditionally On the versatility side, traditionally rasterized glyphs can't be rendered off rasterized glyphs can't be rendered off rasterized glyphs can't be rendered off the pixel grid without objectionable the pixel grid without objectionable the pixel grid without objectionable artifacting. So, in that sense, they are artifacting. So, in that sense, they are artifacting. So, in that sense, they are the least versatile. the least versatile. the least versatile. SDFs actually do a bit better here, so SDFs actually do a bit better here, so SDFs actually do a bit better here, so it's perhaps unfair I'm grouping these it's perhaps unfair I'm grouping these it's perhaps unfair I'm grouping these techniques together. techniques together. techniques together. Signed distance glyphs can be rotated Signed distance glyphs can be rotated Signed distance glyphs can be rotated and transformed, and you can also and transformed, and you can also and transformed, and you can also implement text effects like blurs and implement text effects like blurs and implement text effects like blurs and shadows directly in the shader. shadows directly in the shader. shadows directly in the shader. This advantage though is somewhat This advantage though is somewhat This advantage though is somewhat diminished by the impracticality of SDF diminished by the impracticality of SDF diminished by the impracticality of SDF representations and storing them for all representations and storing them for all representations and storing them for all the fonts and languages you might need the fonts and languages you might need the fonts and languages you might need to ship. to ship. to ship. Ray stabbars are a separate important Ray stabbars are a separate important Ray stabbars are a separate important class of algorithms that take a class of algorithms that take a class of algorithms that take a completely different approach. completely different approach. completely different approach. They operate by casting rays from sample They operate by casting rays from sample They operate by casting rays from sample points within each pixel and counting points within each pixel and counting points within each pixel and counting ray glyph intersections to compute the ray glyph intersections to compute the ray glyph intersections to compute the sample point winding number. sample point winding number. sample point winding number. Because they operate on analytical shape Because they operate on analytical shape Because they operate on analytical shape representations, they are naturally representations, they are naturally representations, they are naturally versatile and able to support arbitrary versatile and able to support arbitrary versatile and able to support arbitrary transformations in the same way that transformations in the same way that transformations in the same way that scalable vector graphics can. scalable vector graphics can. scalable vector graphics can. Compared to the head-of-time Compared to the head-of-time Compared to the head-of-time rasterization approaches, ray stabbars rasterization approaches, ray stabbars rasterization approaches, ray stabbars have a heftier runtime cost on the GPU, have a heftier runtime cost on the GPU, have a heftier runtime cost on the GPU, but make up for it by having a much but make up for it by having a much but make up for it by having a much smaller memory footprint. smaller memory footprint. smaller memory footprint. Where ray stabbars appear to struggle Where ray stabbars appear to struggle Where ray stabbars appear to struggle more is in the complexity front. more is in the complexity front. more is in the complexity front. Because the algorithm relies on root Because the algorithm relies on root Because the algorithm relies on root finding to count discrete events, it is finding to count discrete events, it is finding to count discrete events, it is difficult to make ray stabbars difficult to make ray stabbars difficult to make ray stabbars numerically robust. numerically robust. numerically robust. This has been solved before as described This has been solved before as described This has been solved before as described in the Slug paper, but the in the Slug paper, but the in the Slug paper, but the implementation challenges are quite real implementation challenges are quite real implementation challenges are quite real as others have found. as others have found. as others have found. Note that I put a star next to the ray Note that I put a star next to the ray Note that I put a star next to the ray stabbar line because I haven't actually stabbar line because I haven't actually stabbar line because I haven't actually implemented a variant of this algorithm implemented a variant of this algorithm implemented a variant of this algorithm myself, and I can't really speak to how myself, and I can't really speak to how myself, and I can't really speak to how ray stabbing algorithms compare to my ray stabbing algorithms compare to my ray stabbing algorithms compare to my solution without educated guesswork. solution without educated guesswork. solution without educated guesswork. Instead, I wanted to go in a bit of a Instead, I wanted to go in a bit of a Instead, I wanted to go in a bit of a different direction with this goal in different direction with this goal in different direction with this goal in mind. mind. mind. Like ray stabbars, I knew that I wanted Like ray stabbars, I knew that I wanted Like ray stabbars, I knew that I wanted to benefit from rendering directly from to benefit from rendering directly from to benefit from rendering directly from the analytical representations of the the analytical representations of the the analytical representations of the glyphs. glyphs. glyphs. This would let me retain all the memory, This would let me retain all the memory, This would let me retain all the memory, quality, and versatility advantages. quality, and versatility advantages. quality, and versatility advantages. The idea I wanted to implement was based The idea I wanted to implement was based The idea I wanted to implement was based on continuous coverage estimates as on continuous coverage estimates as on continuous coverage estimates as opposed to discrete event counting. opposed to discrete event counting. opposed to discrete event counting. Performance was also top of mind for me, Performance was also top of mind for me, Performance was also top of mind for me, and I wanted a solution that was and I wanted a solution that was and I wanted a solution that was competitive with the state of the art. competitive with the state of the art. competitive with the state of the art. Without further ado, let's look at Without further ado, let's look at Without further ado, let's look at bird's-eye view of the algorithm. bird's-eye view of the algorithm. bird's-eye view of the algorithm. The algorithm begins by pre-processing The algorithm begins by pre-processing The algorithm begins by pre-processing glyph data embedded in OpenType font glyph data embedded in OpenType font glyph data embedded in OpenType font files. files. files. Each glyph contains one or more Each glyph contains one or more Each glyph contains one or more compressed streams of points that compressed streams of points that compressed streams of points that specify contours. specify contours. specify contours. These are the quadratic Bézier control These are the quadratic Bézier control These are the quadratic Bézier control points in this glyph. points in this glyph. points in this glyph. Bézier curves have control points that Bézier curves have control points that Bézier curves have control points that aren't on the glyph outline itself, but aren't on the glyph outline itself, but aren't on the glyph outline itself, but are used to modulate the curvature. are used to modulate the curvature. are used to modulate the curvature. Newer font formats specify glyph Newer font formats specify glyph Newer font formats specify glyph outlines with cubic Béziers that possess outlines with cubic Béziers that possess outlines with cubic Béziers that possess four control points and will need to be four control points and will need to be four control points and will need to be approximated with one or more quadratic approximated with one or more quadratic approximated with one or more quadratic Béziers for this algorithm to work. Béziers for this algorithm to work. Béziers for this algorithm to work. For now, assume that all cubic Béziers For now, assume that all cubic Béziers For now, assume that all cubic Béziers have been properly split. have been properly split. have been properly split. Other points on the contour correspond Other points on the contour correspond Other points on the contour correspond to line segments, which are essentially to line segments, which are essentially to line segments, which are essentially first-order Béziers. first-order Béziers. first-order Béziers. To simplify the implementation and To simplify the implementation and To simplify the implementation and improve performance of the shader, we'll improve performance of the shader, we'll improve performance of the shader, we'll need to promote these linear segments to need to promote these linear segments to need to promote these linear segments to quadratic Béziers. quadratic Béziers. quadratic Béziers. At this point, everything we're working At this point, everything we're working At this point, everything we're working with is a quadratic Bézier of some sort. with is a quadratic Bézier of some sort. with is a quadratic Bézier of some sort. And if we were to connect all these And if we were to connect all these And if we were to connect all these curves for each contour, we would see curves for each contour, we would see curves for each contour, we would see the outline of the glyph take shape. the outline of the glyph take shape. the outline of the glyph take shape. On the topic of processing linear On the topic of processing linear On the topic of processing linear segments, strictly horizontal segments segments, strictly horizontal segments segments, strictly horizontal segments won't be needed, as we'll see later, so won't be needed, as we'll see later, so won't be needed, as we'll see later, so let's strip these from consideration in let's strip these from consideration in let's strip these from consideration in the future, also. the future, also. the future, also. We're not done with curve processing We're not done with curve processing We're not done with curve processing just yet, however. just yet, however. just yet, however. To simplify some of the math down the To simplify some of the math down the To simplify some of the math down the line, we need all of these curves to be line, we need all of these curves to be line, we need all of these curves to be monotonic in both X and Y. monotonic in both X and Y. monotonic in both X and Y. I'll cover this in more detail later, I'll cover this in more detail later, I'll cover this in more detail later, but for now, know that some of these but for now, know that some of these but for now, know that some of these quadratic Béziers need to be split into quadratic Béziers need to be split into quadratic Béziers need to be split into up to three separate to satisfy this up to three separate to satisfy this up to three separate to satisfy this condition. condition. condition. You might have missed it, but this glyph You might have missed it, but this glyph You might have missed it, but this glyph only happens to have one split needed only happens to have one split needed only happens to have one split needed here because the inner loop happens to here because the inner loop happens to here because the inner loop happens to travel right ever so slightly before travel right ever so slightly before travel right ever so slightly before curving back left while moving upwards. Everything described so far happens Everything described so far happens offline when the font gets processed, offline when the font gets processed, offline when the font gets processed, and we're now ready to shade the glyph and we're now ready to shade the glyph and we're now ready to shade the glyph itself. itself. itself. In a pixel or compute shader, the first In a pixel or compute shader, the first In a pixel or compute shader, the first step is to determine the region of the step is to determine the region of the step is to determine the region of the glyph covered by the pixel. The size of this footprint may change The size of this footprint may change depending on font size, glyph depending on font size, glyph depending on font size, glyph transformations, DPI, or camera transformations, DPI, or camera transformations, DPI, or camera configuration. And the footprint may not configuration. And the footprint may not configuration. And the footprint may not even be uniform. But we'll just stick even be uniform. But we'll just stick even be uniform. But we'll just stick with a simple square for now. We're now ready to discuss the core part We're now ready to discuss the core part of the algorithm, the scan line sweep. For every footprint shaded, each curve For every footprint shaded, each curve is considered with respect to the upper is considered with respect to the upper is considered with respect to the upper and lower scan line boundaries. Normally at this point, a ray stabber Normally at this point, a ray stabber would shoot rays from one or more sample would shoot rays from one or more sample would shoot rays from one or more sample points within the footprint to compute points within the footprint to compute points within the footprint to compute the sample winding number. the sample winding number. the sample winding number. But that's not what we're going to do. But that's not what we're going to do. But that's not what we're going to do. Before I describe what we actually do, Before I describe what we actually do, Before I describe what we actually do, something I need to mention is that the something I need to mention is that the something I need to mention is that the direction these contours travel is direction these contours travel is direction these contours travel is significant. significant. significant. The OpenType specification requires that The OpenType specification requires that The OpenType specification requires that the glyph interior is to the right from the glyph interior is to the right from the glyph interior is to the right from the perspective of a particle traveling the perspective of a particle traveling the perspective of a particle traveling along a contour. along a contour. along a contour. Shown here are particles moving along Shown here are particles moving along Shown here are particles moving along the outer contour. And here are particles moving along the And here are particles moving along the inner contour. inner contour. inner contour. It's true that some misbehaving fonts It's true that some misbehaving fonts It's true that some misbehaving fonts from naughty font makers don't honor from naughty font makers don't honor from naughty font makers don't honor this requirement, but by and large, the this requirement, but by and large, the this requirement, but by and large, the vast majority of fonts I tested did this vast majority of fonts I tested did this vast majority of fonts I tested did this correctly. correctly. correctly. And it's something we can fix in the And it's something we can fix in the And it's something we can fix in the font itself if needed. Now that we understand the significance Now that we understand the significance of the contour direction, I've colored of the contour direction, I've colored of the contour direction, I've colored portions of the contour that are portions of the contour that are portions of the contour that are traveling upwards in green, and portions traveling upwards in green, and portions traveling upwards in green, and portions of the contour that are traveling of the contour that are traveling of the contour that are traveling downwards in red. downwards in red. downwards in red. Remember that the glyph interior is on Remember that the glyph interior is on Remember that the glyph interior is on the right. For each window, we'll only consider For each window, we'll only consider curves that intersect the scan line, and curves that intersect the scan line, and curves that intersect the scan line, and for each curve that does, we'll compute for each curve that does, we'll compute for each curve that does, we'll compute the area of the window covered if we the area of the window covered if we the area of the window covered if we sweep the curve to the right. sweep the curve to the right. sweep the curve to the right. The number below the window will track The number below the window will track The number below the window will track the area covered as a ratio of the total the area covered as a ratio of the total the area covered as a ratio of the total window area. This first segment ends partway up the This first segment ends partway up the scan line, so its area contribution is scan line, so its area contribution is scan line, so its area contribution is only a fraction of the area of the only a fraction of the area of the only a fraction of the area of the window. window. window. The reason the sweep is only partially The reason the sweep is only partially The reason the sweep is only partially covering the scan line is because that's covering the scan line is because that's covering the scan line is because that's where our curve happens to end. where our curve happens to end. where our curve happens to end. The upper and lower sweep boundaries are The upper and lower sweep boundaries are The upper and lower sweep boundaries are defined by the intersection of the scan defined by the intersection of the scan defined by the intersection of the scan line region and the curve's control line region and the curve's control line region and the curve's control points. points. points. This next segment fills in what's left, This next segment fills in what's left, This next segment fills in what's left, and at this point our coverage estimate and at this point our coverage estimate and at this point our coverage estimate believes that the window is fully believes that the window is fully believes that the window is fully covered. covered. covered. This next sweep starts correcting our This next sweep starts correcting our This next sweep starts correcting our estimate, though. estimate, though. estimate, though. The swept curve moves downwards, so it The swept curve moves downwards, so it The swept curve moves downwards, so it reduces the coverage estimate. Unlike the previous sweeps, this sweep Unlike the previous sweeps, this sweep starts in the window interior. starts in the window interior. starts in the window interior. To compute the covered area, you can To compute the covered area, you can To compute the covered area, you can imagine approximating the area by imagine approximating the area by imagine approximating the area by computing the area of this trapezoid. computing the area of this trapezoid. computing the area of this trapezoid. This is the last sweep that overlaps the This is the last sweep that overlaps the This is the last sweep that overlaps the scan line. scan line. scan line. Unlike the previous sweep, we estimate Unlike the previous sweep, we estimate Unlike the previous sweep, we estimate the covered area with this triangle, the covered area with this triangle, the covered area with this triangle, which can be thought of as a trapezoid which can be thought of as a trapezoid which can be thought of as a trapezoid where one of the base lengths is zero. where one of the base lengths is zero. where one of the base lengths is zero. With this, the scan line sweeper With this, the scan line sweeper With this, the scan line sweeper believes that the pixel is roughly 80% believes that the pixel is roughly 80% believes that the pixel is roughly 80% covered. covered. Let's move the window around in this Let's move the window around in this Let's move the window around in this vicinity to get a feel for how this vicinity to get a feel for how this vicinity to get a feel for how this works in other situations. In this case, the window is completely In this case, the window is completely outside the glyph interior, outside the glyph interior, outside the glyph interior, and the sweeps associated with downwards and the sweeps associated with downwards and the sweeps associated with downwards and upwards moving curves cancel out. This is another easy case where the This is another easy case where the window is completely covered and only window is completely covered and only window is completely covered and only one segment influences the coverage one segment influences the coverage one segment influences the coverage ratio. This window has a bit more going on This window has a bit more going on since it overlaps a point where two since it overlaps a point where two since it overlaps a point where two curves meet traveling in opposite curves meet traveling in opposite curves meet traveling in opposite directions. directions. directions. This leftmost curve covers the entire This leftmost curve covers the entire This leftmost curve covers the entire window as we've seen before. window as we've seen before. window as we've seen before. This curve here technically has a This curve here technically has a This curve here technically has a positive contribution, too, but it's so positive contribution, too, but it's so positive contribution, too, but it's so small that our low precision display small that our low precision display small that our low precision display doesn't show any changes. doesn't show any changes. doesn't show any changes. On the other hand, this curve has a more On the other hand, this curve has a more On the other hand, this curve has a more substantial negative contribution. substantial negative contribution. substantial negative contribution. The final coverage computed here is 61%, The final coverage computed here is 61%, The final coverage computed here is 61%, which seems pretty reasonable. which seems pretty reasonable. which seems pretty reasonable. All that's left is to repeat this for All that's left is to repeat this for All that's left is to repeat this for every pixel, and we We be left with a every pixel, and we We be left with a every pixel, and we We be left with a nicely anti-aliased glyph. Let's now get into the implementation, Let's now get into the implementation, starting with a little bit of algebra. This is the evaluation of a quadratic This is the evaluation of a quadratic Bezier curve, which is basically just a Bezier curve, which is basically just a Bezier curve, which is basically just a couple nested interpolations. Since we need to take derivatives of Since we need to take derivatives of this equation with respect to T, it's a this equation with respect to T, it's a this equation with respect to T, it's a bit more convenient to write it in this bit more convenient to write it in this bit more convenient to write it in this form instead. Taking the derivative will let us find Taking the derivative will let us find the inflection points. Setting this to zero and solving for T, Setting this to zero and solving for T, we find two values of T that gives us we find two values of T that gives us we find two values of T that gives us our inflection points for the X and Y our inflection points for the X and Y our inflection points for the X and Y coordinate. coordinate. coordinate. If both of these values are outside the If both of these values are outside the If both of these values are outside the unit interval for a given quadratic unit interval for a given quadratic unit interval for a given quadratic Bezier, we can say that that Bezier Bezier, we can say that that Bezier Bezier, we can say that that Bezier curve is monotonic. If you're confused by this notation, If you're confused by this notation, just remember that the points in our just remember that the points in our just remember that the points in our Bezier curve are actually Bezier curve are actually Bezier curve are actually two-dimensional. So, the right-hand side two-dimensional. So, the right-hand side two-dimensional. So, the right-hand side of this equation here is actually two of this equation here is actually two of this equation here is actually two separate scalar expressions in one. separate scalar expressions in one. separate scalar expressions in one. Here's a Desmos demo I put together to Here's a Desmos demo I put together to Here's a Desmos demo I put together to explain how these equations work. explain how these equations work. explain how these equations work. At the top left here, you see three At the top left here, you see three At the top left here, you see three separate control points for our Bezier separate control points for our Bezier separate control points for our Bezier curve. This equation we've seen already. This This equation we've seen already. This is the interpolation formula that allows is the interpolation formula that allows is the interpolation formula that allows us to evaluate a point on the Bezier us to evaluate a point on the Bezier us to evaluate a point on the Bezier curve curve curve for a given parameter T. for a given parameter T. for a given parameter T. This next line plots the curve as the This next line plots the curve as the This next line plots the curve as the dashed blue line you see on the right. dashed blue line you see on the right. dashed blue line you see on the right. This line is the second-degree This line is the second-degree This line is the second-degree coefficient that you saw when we coefficient that you saw when we coefficient that you saw when we expressed the Bezier curve evaluation as expressed the Bezier curve evaluation as expressed the Bezier curve evaluation as the more familiar quadratic form the more familiar quadratic form the more familiar quadratic form earlier. These next two values are actually These next two values are actually values of T for which X and y are at values of T for which X and y are at values of T for which X and y are at their inflection point. their inflection point. their inflection point. These were our solutions for that These were our solutions for that These were our solutions for that equation when we set the derivative equation when we set the derivative equation when we set the derivative equal to zero. These last two lines evaluate the Bezier These last two lines evaluate the Bezier curve at those inflection points and curve at those inflection points and curve at those inflection points and plot them on the right. plot them on the right. plot them on the right. This way we'll be able to move the This way we'll be able to move the This way we'll be able to move the control points around and see how the control points around and see how the control points around and see how the inflection points change. inflection points change. inflection points change. Notice that I'm restricting the plotting Notice that I'm restricting the plotting Notice that I'm restricting the plotting of these inflection points to when the of these inflection points to when the of these inflection points to when the value of t lives within the unit value of t lives within the unit value of t lives within the unit interval. interval. interval. If I were to move this control point If I were to move this control point If I were to move this control point like so, like so, like so, now the center control point lives now the center control point lives now the center control point lives roughly between the outer control roughly between the outer control roughly between the outer control points. points. Visually, you should be able to see that Visually, you should be able to see that Visually, you should be able to see that the curve is monotonic across the entire the curve is monotonic across the entire the curve is monotonic across the entire interval. There's nowhere where it's interval. There's nowhere where it's interval. There's nowhere where it's increasing and then decreasing at some increasing and then decreasing at some increasing and then decreasing at some point along the curve. point along the curve. point along the curve. If I were to pull this control point up, If I were to pull this control point up, If I were to pull this control point up, now there's clearly a point along the now there's clearly a point along the now there's clearly a point along the curve for which y was increasing before curve for which y was increasing before curve for which y was increasing before the point and then decreasing after the the point and then decreasing after the the point and then decreasing after the point. point. point. Similarly, if I pull the control point Similarly, if I pull the control point Similarly, if I pull the control point down, down, down, you can see it works in the other you can see it works in the other you can see it works in the other direction as well. direction as well. direction as well. On the other hand, if I pull the points On the other hand, if I pull the points On the other hand, if I pull the points to the right, now I can create a point to the right, now I can create a point to the right, now I can create a point where the curve was going to the right where the curve was going to the right where the curve was going to the right prior to the inflection point and then prior to the inflection point and then prior to the inflection point and then moving to the left afterwards. moving to the left afterwards. moving to the left afterwards. It's maybe a bit subtle here, so let me It's maybe a bit subtle here, so let me It's maybe a bit subtle here, so let me exaggerate it a bit. exaggerate it a bit. exaggerate it a bit. As you might expect, it works in the As you might expect, it works in the As you might expect, it works in the opposite direction just as well. opposite direction just as well. opposite direction just as well. Finally, if I were to take the control Finally, if I were to take the control Finally, if I were to take the control point and pull it up like this, you can point and pull it up like this, you can point and pull it up like this, you can see that it's pretty easy to construct a see that it's pretty easy to construct a see that it's pretty easy to construct a scenario where we have both an x and a y scenario where we have both an x and a y scenario where we have both an x and a y inflection point. inflection point. inflection point. For each inflection point, we're going For each inflection point, we're going For each inflection point, we're going to need to split the Bezier curve. Let's to need to split the Bezier curve. Let's to need to split the Bezier curve. Let's talk about how to do that. Let's suppose we want to split the curve Let's suppose we want to split the curve here. here. here. We know that the end points of the sub We know that the end points of the sub We know that the end points of the sub curve need to be the start point of our curve need to be the start point of our curve need to be the start point of our original curve original curve original curve as well as the split point. as well as the split point. as well as the split point. So, the question that remains is where So, the question that remains is where So, the question that remains is where between the two endpoints should the new between the two endpoints should the new between the two endpoints should the new control point be? It turns out that if you know how to It turns out that if you know how to evaluate points on the curve itself, you evaluate points on the curve itself, you evaluate points on the curve itself, you also know how to split the curve. also know how to split the curve. also know how to split the curve. Bézier curve evaluation happens with a Bézier curve evaluation happens with a Bézier curve evaluation happens with a series of interpolations. series of interpolations. series of interpolations. First, we interpolate A and B, and that First, we interpolate A and B, and that First, we interpolate A and B, and that gets us this white point. gets us this white point. gets us this white point. Then, we interpolate B and C, and that Then, we interpolate B and C, and that Then, we interpolate B and C, and that gets us this blue point. gets us this blue point. gets us this blue point. Then, we interpolate those two points, Then, we interpolate those two points, Then, we interpolate those two points, and that gets us our answer. Now, it turns out if we also wanted to Now, it turns out if we also wanted to split the Bézier curve at this point, split the Bézier curve at this point, split the Bézier curve at this point, the intermediate value where we the intermediate value where we the intermediate value where we interpolated between A and B is interpolated between A and B is interpolated between A and B is precisely the control point we need for precisely the control point we need for precisely the control point we need for the first subcurve. the first subcurve. the first subcurve. And similarly, if we wanted the control And similarly, if we wanted the control And similarly, if we wanted the control point for the second subcurve, well, point for the second subcurve, well, point for the second subcurve, well, that's precisely the point we evaluated that's precisely the point we evaluated that's precisely the point we evaluated when we interpolated between B and C. Here in green, I've plotted the Bézier Here in green, I've plotted the Bézier curve that would result if we use this curve that would result if we use this curve that would result if we use this white point as the control point. And notice that if I shift this value And notice that if I shift this value around, which is the split point, and around, which is the split point, and around, which is the split point, and the interpolated value between A and B the interpolated value between A and B the interpolated value between A and B changes, so too does that white control changes, so too does that white control changes, so too does that white control point, and the green Bézier curve is point, and the green Bézier curve is point, and the green Bézier curve is completely coincident with our original completely coincident with our original completely coincident with our original curve. curve. curve. We've essentially split the Bézier curve We've essentially split the Bézier curve We've essentially split the Bézier curve as a byproduct of evaluating it. as a byproduct of evaluating it. as a byproduct of evaluating it. This turns out to be an application of This turns out to be an application of This turns out to be an application of de Casteljau's algorithm, which de Casteljau's algorithm, which de Casteljau's algorithm, which specifies not just how to evaluate specifies not just how to evaluate specifies not just how to evaluate Bézier curves, but also how to split Bézier curves, but also how to split Bézier curves, but also how to split them. them. them. I think this is an unfortunately I think this is an unfortunately I think this is an unfortunately overlooked property of the algorithm, overlooked property of the algorithm, overlooked property of the algorithm, because people think you need to do because people think you need to do because people think you need to do something fancy to split curves when you something fancy to split curves when you something fancy to split curves when you might have been doing it all along might have been doing it all along might have been doing it all along without realizing it. Another thing we need to compute is Another thing we need to compute is where the Bézier curve intersects either where the Bézier curve intersects either where the Bézier curve intersects either horizontal or vertical lines. horizontal or vertical lines. horizontal or vertical lines. It turns out that because all of the It turns out that because all of the It turns out that because all of the curves we'll work with in the shader are curves we'll work with in the shader are curves we'll work with in the shader are monotonic in both X and Y, monotonic in both X and Y, monotonic in both X and Y, This can be done quite efficiently. This can be done quite efficiently. This can be done quite efficiently. Here's another Desmos demo to show how Here's another Desmos demo to show how Here's another Desmos demo to show how this works. this works. this works. This folder is holding all the This folder is holding all the This folder is holding all the functionality that you've seen already functionality that you've seen already functionality that you've seen already in terms of displaying control points, in terms of displaying control points, in terms of displaying control points, moving them around, and interpolating moving them around, and interpolating moving them around, and interpolating the Bezier. the Bezier. the Bezier. And QA, QB, and QC, these are the And QA, QB, and QC, these are the And QA, QB, and QC, these are the coefficients of our quadratic equation. coefficients of our quadratic equation. coefficients of our quadratic equation. Here I've defined Q sub D as the square Here I've defined Q sub D as the square Here I've defined Q sub D as the square root of the discriminant. root of the discriminant. root of the discriminant. And here I have the positive and the And here I have the positive and the And here I have the positive and the negative root if we were to evaluate the negative root if we were to evaluate the negative root if we were to evaluate the quadratic equation. quadratic equation. quadratic equation. Finally, I use those quantities to Finally, I use those quantities to Finally, I use those quantities to compute the positive and the negative compute the positive and the negative compute the positive and the negative root, root, root, which when evaluated gets us the point which when evaluated gets us the point which when evaluated gets us the point of intersection we need. of intersection we need. of intersection we need. And these points are plotted to the And these points are plotted to the And these points are plotted to the right, restricted to the unit interval. right, restricted to the unit interval. right, restricted to the unit interval. On the right, you can see the point of On the right, you can see the point of On the right, you can see the point of intersection plotted along with a label intersection plotted along with a label intersection plotted along with a label that indicates whether we took the that indicates whether we took the that indicates whether we took the positive root or the negative root. Unlike before, I've also taken the Unlike before, I've also taken the liberty to label P0, P1, and P2 for the liberty to label P0, P1, and P2 for the liberty to label P0, P1, and P2 for the control points of our Bezier curve, so control points of our Bezier curve, so control points of our Bezier curve, so you can understand the direction that you can understand the direction that you can understand the direction that the curve is moving in because it always the curve is moving in because it always the curve is moving in because it always moves from P0 at T equals 0 up to P2 at moves from P0 at T equals 0 up to P2 at moves from P0 at T equals 0 up to P2 at T equals 1. T equals 1. T equals 1. One thing you'll notice here is that it One thing you'll notice here is that it One thing you'll notice here is that it seems like no matter how I move this seems like no matter how I move this seems like no matter how I move this control point around, only the positive control point around, only the positive control point around, only the positive root is where the intersection is. The negative root here on the other hand The negative root here on the other hand is marked undefined because the root is marked undefined because the root is marked undefined because the root actually lies outside of the unit actually lies outside of the unit actually lies outside of the unit interval. interval. That is, the evaluated root here -2.8 is That is, the evaluated root here -2.8 is That is, the evaluated root here -2.8 is not part of the domain. not part of the domain. not part of the domain. If, however, I were to swap P0 and P2 If, however, I were to swap P0 and P2 If, however, I were to swap P0 and P2 such that the Bezier curve is now going such that the Bezier curve is now going such that the Bezier curve is now going downwards, it's actually the exact downwards, it's actually the exact downwards, it's actually the exact opposite. The root selected is always opposite. The root selected is always opposite. The root selected is always the negative root. Let's To why this might be true by Let's To why this might be true by looking at a simple parabola. looking at a simple parabola. looking at a simple parabola. At the top, I have these three At the top, I have these three At the top, I have these three coefficients, A, B, and C. coefficients, A, B, and C. coefficients, A, B, and C. I'm plotting the quadratic equation as a I'm plotting the quadratic equation as a I'm plotting the quadratic equation as a function of T. function of T. function of T. And I have also plotted the specific And I have also plotted the specific And I have also plotted the specific point here point here point here centered at -b over 2a. centered at -b over 2a. centered at -b over 2a. This point is the point of symmetry This point is the point of symmetry This point is the point of symmetry about the parabola. And because of of about the parabola. And because of of about the parabola. And because of of how the quadratic formula works, how the quadratic formula works, how the quadratic formula works, we know that the roots of the quadratic we know that the roots of the quadratic we know that the roots of the quadratic equation are symmetric about -b over 2a. This D quantity here is just a random This D quantity here is just a random variable that I've named variable that I've named variable that I've named has the square root of b² - 4ac over 2a. has the square root of b² - 4ac over 2a. has the square root of b² - 4ac over 2a. And to find the roots of the quadratic And to find the roots of the quadratic And to find the roots of the quadratic equation, we need to either add or equation, we need to either add or equation, we need to either add or subtract D. subtract D. subtract D. So, the question is, So, the question is, So, the question is, does a given intersection point does a given intersection point does a given intersection point correspond to the positive or the correspond to the positive or the correspond to the positive or the negative root? negative root? negative root? In this case, this intersection on the In this case, this intersection on the In this case, this intersection on the right corresponds to the positive root. right corresponds to the positive root. right corresponds to the positive root. How do we know? We know because A is a How do we know? We know because A is a How do we know? We know because A is a positive quantity. positive quantity. positive quantity. And if we take the positive root, then D And if we take the positive root, then D And if we take the positive root, then D is a positive quantity. is a positive quantity. is a positive quantity. And so, -b over 2a plus that positive And so, -b over 2a plus that positive And so, -b over 2a plus that positive quantity quantity quantity gets us this intersection point. gets us this intersection point. gets us this intersection point. Conversely, if we were to take the Conversely, if we were to take the Conversely, if we were to take the negative root, then D is a negative negative root, then D is a negative negative root, then D is a negative quantity. And -b over 2a quantity. And -b over 2a quantity. And -b over 2a minus that negative quantity moves us to minus that negative quantity moves us to minus that negative quantity moves us to the left. the left. the left. And that gives us the negative And that gives us the negative And that gives us the negative intersection. If I were to invert the parabola If I were to invert the parabola and consider the points of intersection and consider the points of intersection and consider the points of intersection in this inverted parabola, in this inverted parabola, in this inverted parabola, now it's actually the opposite case now it's actually the opposite case now it's actually the opposite case because A itself is now negative. because A itself is now negative. because A itself is now negative. That means that if I take the positive That means that if I take the positive That means that if I take the positive square root, square root, square root, D becomes a negative quantity. That D becomes a negative quantity. That D becomes a negative quantity. That moves me to the left of the inflection moves me to the left of the inflection moves me to the left of the inflection point. point. On the other hand, if I take the On the other hand, if I take the On the other hand, if I take the negative square root, those negatives negative square root, those negatives negative square root, those negatives cancel, D becomes a positive quantity, cancel, D becomes a positive quantity, cancel, D becomes a positive quantity, and that moves me to the right of the and that moves me to the right of the and that moves me to the right of the inflection point. With this information, if you consider With this information, if you consider the four different cases of positive the four different cases of positive the four different cases of positive curvature versus negative curvature, the curvature versus negative curvature, the curvature versus negative curvature, the left and the right root, you will find left and the right root, you will find left and the right root, you will find that the sign of the square root that that the sign of the square root that that the sign of the square root that you always need matches the sign of the you always need matches the sign of the you always need matches the sign of the gradient. Here, for example, Y is increasing on Here, for example, Y is increasing on this side of the parabola, and the this side of the parabola, and the this side of the parabola, and the positive root happens to be the one that positive root happens to be the one that positive root happens to be the one that corresponds to this intersection point. corresponds to this intersection point. corresponds to this intersection point. I'll leave it to you to verify the other I'll leave it to you to verify the other I'll leave it to you to verify the other three cases, though. To simplify the explanation a bit for To simplify the explanation a bit for this video, we're also going to remove this video, we're also going to remove this video, we're also going to remove contour overlaps. contour overlaps. contour overlaps. This isn't a strict requirement for this This isn't a strict requirement for this This isn't a strict requirement for this algorithm, and a method to relax this algorithm, and a method to relax this algorithm, and a method to relax this requirement is given in the associated requirement is given in the associated requirement is given in the associated paper. paper. paper. Fortunately, there are a number of Fortunately, there are a number of Fortunately, there are a number of algorithms that solve this quite well, algorithms that solve this quite well, algorithms that solve this quite well, and you can use tools like FontForge to and you can use tools like FontForge to and you can use tools like FontForge to get rid of contour overlaps for your get rid of contour overlaps for your get rid of contour overlaps for your initial implementation. Or, you can just initial implementation. Or, you can just initial implementation. Or, you can just choose a font that doesn't have this choose a font that doesn't have this choose a font that doesn't have this problem. Let's take a look at how this is Let's take a look at how this is implemented in the shader itself, implemented in the shader itself, implemented in the shader itself, which we'll need in order to intersect which we'll need in order to intersect which we'll need in order to intersect with the scanline boundaries as well as with the scanline boundaries as well as with the scanline boundaries as well as the window boundaries on the left and the window boundaries on the left and the window boundaries on the left and the right. the right. the right. QA here is the second-degree QA here is the second-degree QA here is the second-degree coefficients computed by the caller coefficients computed by the caller coefficients computed by the caller because it's reused multiple times. because it's reused multiple times. because it's reused multiple times. And C0, C1, and C2 are the coordinate And C0, C1, and C2 are the coordinate And C0, C1, and C2 are the coordinate values of the first, second, and third values of the first, second, and third values of the first, second, and third control point, respectively. control point, respectively. control point, respectively. Target refers to the location of the Target refers to the location of the Target refers to the location of the horizontal or vertical line we're trying horizontal or vertical line we're trying horizontal or vertical line we're trying to hit. to hit. to hit. And the delta sign is the sign of the And the delta sign is the sign of the And the delta sign is the sign of the gradient, which we use to select whether gradient, which we use to select whether gradient, which we use to select whether we want the positive root or the we want the positive root or the we want the positive root or the negative root, as we've seen. negative root, as we've seen. negative root, as we've seen. First, we look at the leading First, we look at the leading First, we look at the leading coefficient and determine hey, are we a coefficient and determine hey, are we a coefficient and determine hey, are we a linear line segment or are we a linear line segment or are we a linear line segment or are we a quadratic curve? And if we're mostly quadratic curve? And if we're mostly quadratic curve? And if we're mostly linear, then this intersection routine linear, then this intersection routine linear, then this intersection routine is good enough. is good enough. is good enough. Otherwise, we compute the other Otherwise, we compute the other Otherwise, we compute the other coefficients of the quadratic coefficients of the quadratic coefficients of the quadratic expression. expression. expression. We compute the discriminant. We compute the discriminant. We compute the discriminant. And we do a check here where if the And we do a check here where if the And we do a check here where if the discriminant is less than zero, then we discriminant is less than zero, then we discriminant is less than zero, then we just clamp it to zero. just clamp it to zero. just clamp it to zero. Normally, it's not safe to do this Normally, it's not safe to do this Normally, it's not safe to do this because if the discriminant is negative, because if the discriminant is negative, because if the discriminant is negative, that usually corresponds to an actual that usually corresponds to an actual that usually corresponds to an actual scenario where there are no intersection scenario where there are no intersection scenario where there are no intersection points. points. In my case, this is totally fine because In my case, this is totally fine because In my case, this is totally fine because prior to me ever calling this routine, I prior to me ever calling this routine, I prior to me ever calling this routine, I already do bounce checks on the first already do bounce checks on the first already do bounce checks on the first and the last control point to determine and the last control point to determine and the last control point to determine if an intersection is guaranteed or not. if an intersection is guaranteed or not. if an intersection is guaranteed or not. So in this case, an underflow below zero So in this case, an underflow below zero So in this case, an underflow below zero means that we just happen to hit some means that we just happen to hit some means that we just happen to hit some floating point imprecision problem and floating point imprecision problem and floating point imprecision problem and so we can clamp it safely. Then, we compute the actual root and Then, we compute the actual root and this you will probably recognize as just this you will probably recognize as just this you will probably recognize as just the evaluation of the quadratic formula the evaluation of the quadratic formula the evaluation of the quadratic formula with that delta sign picking whether we with that delta sign picking whether we with that delta sign picking whether we want the positive or the negative root. want the positive or the negative root. want the positive or the negative root. By the way, I should just mention that By the way, I should just mention that By the way, I should just mention that you're going to be seeing this mad you're going to be seeing this mad you're going to be seeing this mad instruction or the multiply add instruction or the multiply add instruction or the multiply add instruction a lot. This is a habit that instruction a lot. This is a habit that instruction a lot. This is a habit that I've picked up from a long time ago I've picked up from a long time ago I've picked up from a long time ago because I always wanted to make sure because I always wanted to make sure because I always wanted to make sure that the driver and the shader compiler that the driver and the shader compiler that the driver and the shader compiler on as wide a variety of platforms and on as wide a variety of platforms and on as wide a variety of platforms and GPUs as possible always selected the GPUs as possible always selected the GPUs as possible always selected the best precision fused multiply add best precision fused multiply add best precision fused multiply add instruction if available. instruction if available. instruction if available. I'll put a link in the description of a I'll put a link in the description of a I'll put a link in the description of a post that describes this in better post that describes this in better post that describes this in better detail for those that are interested. detail for those that are interested. detail for those that are interested. Now let's look at the implementation of Now let's look at the implementation of Now let's look at the implementation of the scanline sweep function. the scanline sweep function. the scanline sweep function. This function is the core of the shader This function is the core of the shader This function is the core of the shader and takes as inputs the window size, the and takes as inputs the window size, the and takes as inputs the window size, the window offset, window offset, window offset, as well as the three control points of as well as the three control points of as well as the three control points of the curve that we're trying to evaluate. the curve that we're trying to evaluate. the curve that we're trying to evaluate. Remember that the goal of this function Remember that the goal of this function Remember that the goal of this function is to take this curve, sweep it to the is to take this curve, sweep it to the is to take this curve, sweep it to the right, and compute the area for which right, and compute the area for which right, and compute the area for which that curve overlaps with the window. These next few lines discard curves that These next few lines discard curves that live entirely above or below the scan live entirely above or below the scan live entirely above or below the scan line. line. line. Note that we're only comparing the first Note that we're only comparing the first Note that we're only comparing the first and the last control points with the and the last control points with the and the last control points with the scan line height. scan line height. scan line height. The reason we can do this is because our The reason we can do this is because our The reason we can do this is because our curves are monotonic. curves are monotonic. curves are monotonic. Normally, the curve interior lives Normally, the curve interior lives Normally, the curve interior lives within the convex hull that's produced within the convex hull that's produced within the convex hull that's produced by all three control points. But, since by all three control points. But, since by all three control points. But, since we know that these curves are monotonic, we know that these curves are monotonic, we know that these curves are monotonic, the middle control point necessarily the middle control point necessarily the middle control point necessarily lives within the interval of the outer lives within the interval of the outer lives within the interval of the outer two control points in both X and Y. And two control points in both X and Y. And two control points in both X and Y. And so, we can make this comparison check a so, we can make this comparison check a so, we can make this comparison check a bit cheaper. Next, we do a little bit of Next, we do a little bit of housekeeping. We shift all of the housekeeping. We shift all of the housekeeping. We shift all of the coordinates by the pixel offset for the coordinates by the pixel offset for the coordinates by the pixel offset for the Bezier curve control points. Bezier curve control points. Bezier curve control points. And that means we're just working in And that means we're just working in And that means we're just working in this nice coordinate space where this nice coordinate space where this nice coordinate space where we are at a window in the first quadrant we are at a window in the first quadrant we are at a window in the first quadrant of the Cartesian plane, of the Cartesian plane, of the Cartesian plane, and this is kind of like what the and this is kind of like what the and this is kind of like what the geometry looks like. Now, onto the actual sweeping part. Now, onto the actual sweeping part. We have a fast path for strictly We have a fast path for strictly We have a fast path for strictly vertical segments that get swept to the vertical segments that get swept to the vertical segments that get swept to the right. right. right. These are easy because you just compute These are easy because you just compute These are easy because you just compute the height for which that segment the height for which that segment the height for which that segment intersects or overlaps with the scan intersects or overlaps with the scan intersects or overlaps with the scan line, line, line, and the area is just the area of a and the area is just the area of a and the area is just the area of a rectangle. For non-vertical segments, we do have to For non-vertical segments, we do have to work a little bit harder. work a little bit harder. work a little bit harder. We have to evaluate the quadratic We have to evaluate the quadratic We have to evaluate the quadratic coefficients, and this is the routine coefficients, and this is the routine coefficients, and this is the routine that you saw earlier where we compute that you saw earlier where we compute that you saw earlier where we compute intersections with the bottom and the intersections with the bottom and the intersections with the bottom and the top of the scan line. And we use this to determine if the And we use this to determine if the curve itself is entirely to the left or curve itself is entirely to the left or curve itself is entirely to the left or to the right of the window. to the right of the window. to the right of the window. If the segment lies entirely to the left If the segment lies entirely to the left If the segment lies entirely to the left the window, then this is the same as the the window, then this is the same as the the window, then this is the same as the vertical case. vertical case. vertical case. And otherwise, if the segment is And otherwise, if the segment is And otherwise, if the segment is entirely to the right, then it has no entirely to the right, then it has no entirely to the right, then it has no contribution to the coverage whatsoever. contribution to the coverage whatsoever. contribution to the coverage whatsoever. This next part is probably the most This next part is probably the most This next part is probably the most complicated part of this function complicated part of this function complicated part of this function because at this point we know that the because at this point we know that the because at this point we know that the curve is somehow either starting within curve is somehow either starting within curve is somehow either starting within the pixel or ending within the pixel or the pixel or ending within the pixel or the pixel or ending within the pixel or otherwise somehow crossing the pixel. otherwise somehow crossing the pixel. otherwise somehow crossing the pixel. But to be honest, this code isn't even But to be honest, this code isn't even But to be honest, this code isn't even that bad because it really just amounts that bad because it really just amounts that bad because it really just amounts to finding intersections or otherwise to finding intersections or otherwise to finding intersections or otherwise evaluating Bezier curves, all of which evaluating Bezier curves, all of which evaluating Bezier curves, all of which you've already seen. you've already seen. you've already seen. By way of a summary, I'll just remind By way of a summary, I'll just remind By way of a summary, I'll just remind you of this image that you saw before in you of this image that you saw before in you of this image that you saw before in the overview, which shows that we are the overview, which shows that we are the overview, which shows that we are essentially approximating the curve as a essentially approximating the curve as a essentially approximating the curve as a linear segment passing through the linear segment passing through the linear segment passing through the pixel. pixel. pixel. And we can compute the coverage estimate And we can compute the coverage estimate And we can compute the coverage estimate just by taking the area of this just by taking the area of this just by taking the area of this trapezoid, which may intersect with the trapezoid, which may intersect with the trapezoid, which may intersect with the top, bottom, or side segments of the top, bottom, or side segments of the top, bottom, or side segments of the pixel depending on the orientation of pixel depending on the orientation of pixel depending on the orientation of the curve. Here I've skipped ahead to the part of Here I've skipped ahead to the part of the code after we've already computed the code after we've already computed the code after we've already computed the intersections with the left and the the intersections with the left and the the intersections with the left and the right side of the pixel window. right side of the pixel window. right side of the pixel window. What we have here is Q0 and Q1, What we have here is Q0 and Q1, What we have here is Q0 and Q1, and these correspond to points on the and these correspond to points on the and these correspond to points on the curve that are also constrained curve that are also constrained curve that are also constrained somewhere within the pixel. somewhere within the pixel. somewhere within the pixel. One thing that we have to be careful One thing that we have to be careful One thing that we have to be careful about is that if the curve is exiting about is that if the curve is exiting about is that if the curve is exiting from the left or entering from the left, from the left or entering from the left, from the left or entering from the left, there's a region of the curve to the there's a region of the curve to the there's a region of the curve to the left of the pixel that also contributes left of the pixel that also contributes left of the pixel that also contributes to the coverage estimate cuz remember we to the coverage estimate cuz remember we to the coverage estimate cuz remember we are sweeping the curve all the way to are sweeping the curve all the way to are sweeping the curve all the way to the right, and it's not just the the right, and it's not just the the right, and it's not just the intersection within the pixel that we intersection within the pixel that we intersection within the pixel that we care about. care about. care about. So, that's what these lines of code here So, that's what these lines of code here So, that's what these lines of code here do. do. do. They essentially check, depending on the They essentially check, depending on the They essentially check, depending on the direction that the curve is moving, direction that the curve is moving, direction that the curve is moving, whether or not we are entering or exit whether or not we are entering or exit whether or not we are entering or exit the pixel from the left. And if so, we the pixel from the left. And if so, we the pixel from the left. And if so, we treat that portion of the curve as treat that portion of the curve as treat that portion of the curve as though it was a vertical line segment though it was a vertical line segment though it was a vertical line segment that sweeps to the right, and we that sweeps to the right, and we that sweeps to the right, and we contribute that area to the final contribute that area to the final contribute that area to the final coverage. coverage. coverage. One thing I should have mentioned by the One thing I should have mentioned by the One thing I should have mentioned by the way is that whenever we are accumulating way is that whenever we are accumulating way is that whenever we are accumulating the coverage, we always have to make the coverage, we always have to make the coverage, we always have to make sure we multiply it by the sign of sure we multiply it by the sign of sure we multiply it by the sign of whether the curve is moving upwards or whether the curve is moving upwards or whether the curve is moving upwards or downwards. Finally, we get to the very end of this Finally, we get to the very end of this function. function. function. And at this point, we are evaluating the And at this point, we are evaluating the And at this point, we are evaluating the coverage of the curve that intersects coverage of the curve that intersects coverage of the curve that intersects with the pixel directly. And with the pixel directly. And with the pixel directly. And specifically, we are interested in the specifically, we are interested in the specifically, we are interested in the area to the right of the curve. area to the right of the curve. area to the right of the curve. And all that's left is a little bit of And all that's left is a little bit of And all that's left is a little bit of arithmetic to compute the area of the arithmetic to compute the area of the arithmetic to compute the area of the trapezoid. trapezoid. trapezoid. We do this by computing this B quantity, We do this by computing this B quantity, We do this by computing this B quantity, which is the sum of the two base lengths which is the sum of the two base lengths which is the sum of the two base lengths of the trapezoid divided by two. of the trapezoid divided by two. of the trapezoid divided by two. Which actually may be zero for one or Which actually may be zero for one or Which actually may be zero for one or the other base length depending on how the other base length depending on how the other base length depending on how the curve intersects the pixel. the curve intersects the pixel. the curve intersects the pixel. This area gets accumulated with the area This area gets accumulated with the area This area gets accumulated with the area from the curve that was swept to the from the curve that was swept to the from the curve that was swept to the right that entered or exited the pixel right that entered or exited the pixel right that entered or exited the pixel from the left that we saw earlier. from the left that we saw earlier. from the left that we saw earlier. The rest of the shader isn't nearly as The rest of the shader isn't nearly as The rest of the shader isn't nearly as interesting, but the main thing I wanted interesting, but the main thing I wanted interesting, but the main thing I wanted to mention was I've been talking a lot to mention was I've been talking a lot to mention was I've been talking a lot about the window or the pixel size and about the window or the pixel size and about the window or the pixel size and offset, but I never really mentioned how offset, but I never really mentioned how offset, but I never really mentioned how those were computed. those were computed. those were computed. In my shader, I actually have multiple In my shader, I actually have multiple In my shader, I actually have multiple variations of the shader. variations of the shader. variations of the shader. One of which is used when rendering in One of which is used when rendering in One of which is used when rendering in screen space. screen space. screen space. And the other which is used when And the other which is used when And the other which is used when rendering fonts in world space. rendering fonts in world space. rendering fonts in world space. In screen space, this is a pretty easy In screen space, this is a pretty easy In screen space, this is a pretty easy case. We know the font size. We know the case. We know the font size. We know the case. We know the font size. We know the screen DPI. We know the resolution of screen DPI. We know the resolution of screen DPI. We know the resolution of the fonts in the font coordinate space. the fonts in the font coordinate space. the fonts in the font coordinate space. And so, we can compute before the draw And so, we can compute before the draw And so, we can compute before the draw ever happens how many font units per ever happens how many font units per ever happens how many font units per pixel there are. pixel there are. pixel there are. And we know that the pixel size is And we know that the pixel size is And we know that the pixel size is uniform because the screen aligned quads uniform because the screen aligned quads uniform because the screen aligned quads aren't being distorted in any way. So, aren't being distorted in any way. So, aren't being distorted in any way. So, we can send the pixel size to the shader we can send the pixel size to the shader we can send the pixel size to the shader directly as a constant. directly as a constant. directly as a constant. The pixel offsets, I'm subtracting half The pixel offsets, I'm subtracting half The pixel offsets, I'm subtracting half of this pixel size. Again, this is in of this pixel size. Again, this is in of this pixel size. Again, this is in font units at this point. font units at this point. font units at this point. And the reason that's done is because And the reason that's done is because And the reason that's done is because when rendering really, really small when rendering really, really small when rendering really, really small text, there needs to be a bit of a text, there needs to be a bit of a text, there needs to be a bit of a boundary around the glyph, such that we boundary around the glyph, such that we boundary around the glyph, such that we always get anti-aliased pixels there as always get anti-aliased pixels there as always get anti-aliased pixels there as opposed to seeing a really, really sharp opposed to seeing a really, really sharp opposed to seeing a really, really sharp falloff. falloff. falloff. The harder case is if we are rendering The harder case is if we are rendering The harder case is if we are rendering the glyph in world space the glyph in world space the glyph in world space after it has potentially been stretched after it has potentially been stretched after it has potentially been stretched or scaled or rotated, and also when it's or scaled or rotated, and also when it's or scaled or rotated, and also when it's under some form of a perspective or some under some form of a perspective or some under some form of a perspective or some other projective transform from the other projective transform from the other projective transform from the camera itself. camera itself. camera itself. Normally, if we are rendering in screen Normally, if we are rendering in screen Normally, if we are rendering in screen space, as in the easy case, the UV space, as in the easy case, the UV space, as in the easy case, the UV vectors are also aligned with screen vectors are also aligned with screen vectors are also aligned with screen space. So, there's nothing really fancy space. So, there's nothing really fancy space. So, there's nothing really fancy going on. And if we were to map the UV going on. And if we were to map the UV going on. And if we were to map the UV gradients from screen space into font gradients from screen space into font gradients from screen space into font space, these are still orthogonal space, these are still orthogonal space, these are still orthogonal vectors that are aligned with the vectors that are aligned with the vectors that are aligned with the coordinate axes in font space. coordinate axes in font space. coordinate axes in font space. On the other hand, if these UVs have On the other hand, if these UVs have On the other hand, if these UVs have been interpolated from vertices that been interpolated from vertices that been interpolated from vertices that have been transformed by matrix have been transformed by matrix have been transformed by matrix transforms and then projected somehow, transforms and then projected somehow, transforms and then projected somehow, the result can be quite different. These the result can be quite different. These the result can be quite different. These vectors mapped into font space might not vectors mapped into font space might not vectors mapped into font space might not be orthogonal, they might be rotated be orthogonal, they might be rotated be orthogonal, they might be rotated with respect to the main coordinate with respect to the main coordinate with respect to the main coordinate axis, they might be different lengths. axis, they might be different lengths. axis, they might be different lengths. All bets are off here. And that's kind All bets are off here. And that's kind All bets are off here. And that's kind of what this UV footprint here is an of what this UV footprint here is an of what this UV footprint here is an approximation of. approximation of. approximation of. Fwidth computes the sum of the absolute Fwidth computes the sum of the absolute Fwidth computes the sum of the absolute values of the finite differences of the values of the finite differences of the values of the finite differences of the argument, which is a big mouthful, but argument, which is a big mouthful, but argument, which is a big mouthful, but all that is saying is that if we look at all that is saying is that if we look at all that is saying is that if we look at how this UV quantity, which is a 2D how this UV quantity, which is a 2D how this UV quantity, which is a 2D vector, is changing across a 2x2 quad of vector, is changing across a 2x2 quad of vector, is changing across a 2x2 quad of pixels, this UV footprint is an estimate pixels, this UV footprint is an estimate pixels, this UV footprint is an estimate of that. of that. of that. We could try to do a more complicated We could try to do a more complicated We could try to do a more complicated computation here, like the square root computation here, like the square root computation here, like the square root of the sum of squares of ddx, find ddy, of the sum of squares of ddx, find ddy, of the sum of squares of ddx, find ddy, find of UV, and that would give us an find of UV, and that would give us an find of UV, and that would give us an even more accurate estimate of this. But even more accurate estimate of this. But even more accurate estimate of this. But in reality, because we are operating in reality, because we are operating in reality, because we are operating with these coarse pixels anyways, fwidth with these coarse pixels anyways, fwidth with these coarse pixels anyways, fwidth often does just as good of a job. often does just as good of a job. often does just as good of a job. With that UV footprints, which might not With that UV footprints, which might not With that UV footprints, which might not be uniform, we can then scale it by some be uniform, we can then scale it by some be uniform, we can then scale it by some dilated size to get the pixel size. dilated size to get the pixel size. dilated size to get the pixel size. Unlike the case with rendering screen Unlike the case with rendering screen Unlike the case with rendering screen space glyphs, though, here we actually space glyphs, though, here we actually space glyphs, though, here we actually have to do a little bit of work to have to do a little bit of work to have to do a little bit of work to figure out what this dilated size should figure out what this dilated size should figure out what this dilated size should be. be. be. I won't show that calculation here I won't show that calculation here I won't show that calculation here because this is somewhat ancillary to because this is somewhat ancillary to because this is somewhat ancillary to the core aspect of the algorithm, but the core aspect of the algorithm, but the core aspect of the algorithm, but the intuition behind how this works is the intuition behind how this works is the intuition behind how this works is that you want a half pixel dilation in that you want a half pixel dilation in that you want a half pixel dilation in screen space. So, you just need to work screen space. So, you just need to work screen space. So, you just need to work out how to scale the quad pre-image out how to scale the quad pre-image out how to scale the quad pre-image based on the model and camera matrices based on the model and camera matrices based on the model and camera matrices to get that result. You might be curious how many precision You might be curious how many precision problems I encountered while problems I encountered while problems I encountered while implementing this. implementing this. implementing this. Well, you might be surprised to know Well, you might be surprised to know Well, you might be surprised to know that the answer is none. that the answer is none. that the answer is none. Unlike ray stabs that count the Unlike ray stabs that count the Unlike ray stabs that count the occurrences of discrete events on a occurrences of discrete events on a occurrences of discrete events on a limited set of sample points, the limited set of sample points, the limited set of sample points, the scanline sweep outcome is a continuous scanline sweep outcome is a continuous scanline sweep outcome is a continuous result. result. result. This means that if the areas computed This means that if the areas computed This means that if the areas computed are slightly off, it doesn't result in a are slightly off, it doesn't result in a are slightly off, it doesn't result in a widely different outcome like you might widely different outcome like you might widely different outcome like you might encounter in a ray stabber. encounter in a ray stabber. encounter in a ray stabber. In fact, I was actually able to reduce In fact, I was actually able to reduce In fact, I was actually able to reduce the precision used to store all the the precision used to store all the the precision used to store all the glyph control points from single glyph control points from single glyph control points from single precision to half precision. precision to half precision. precision to half precision. While writing the TrueType font parser, While writing the TrueType font parser, While writing the TrueType font parser, I noticed that most of the fonts I was I noticed that most of the fonts I was I noticed that most of the fonts I was using operated on a font grid with a using operated on a font grid with a using operated on a font grid with a resolution of 2048 units per em. resolution of 2048 units per em. resolution of 2048 units per em. 16-bit floating points have an 11-bit 16-bit floating points have an 11-bit 16-bit floating points have an 11-bit mantissa, which means that they can mantissa, which means that they can mantissa, which means that they can actually represent integers between the actually represent integers between the actually represent integers between the range of -2048 to 2048 exactly. range of -2048 to 2048 exactly. range of -2048 to 2048 exactly. Even for fonts that define a font grid Even for fonts that define a font grid Even for fonts that define a font grid with a finer resolution than 2048, half with a finer resolution than 2048, half with a finer resolution than 2048, half precision seemed more than sufficient precision seemed more than sufficient precision seemed more than sufficient for the scanline sweeper to render them for the scanline sweeper to render them for the scanline sweeper to render them at sufficient quality. Here's some VRAM usage numbers for a few Here's some VRAM usage numbers for a few fonts demoed in this video. fonts demoed in this video. fonts demoed in this video. Grayscale 8-bit or BC7 textures both Grayscale 8-bit or BC7 textures both Grayscale 8-bit or BC7 textures both store images at a rate of 1 byte per store images at a rate of 1 byte per store images at a rate of 1 byte per texel. texel. texel. So, for the simpler fonts, the storage So, for the simpler fonts, the storage So, for the simpler fonts, the storage requirement for the ASCII character set requirement for the ASCII character set requirement for the ASCII character set is just north of the size of a 4K is just north of the size of a 4K is just north of the size of a 4K texture. texture. texture. But, in exchange for the storage, you're But, in exchange for the storage, you're But, in exchange for the storage, you're able to render text at any size from any able to render text at any size from any able to render text at any size from any perspective, which seems fairly perspective, which seems fairly perspective, which seems fairly economical. economical. economical. Something else we're able to play with Something else we're able to play with Something else we're able to play with is the filtering footprint. is the filtering footprint. is the filtering footprint. What's been presented so far is the What's been presented so far is the What's been presented so far is the simplest version of this algorithm, simplest version of this algorithm, simplest version of this algorithm, where the coverage estimate was made for where the coverage estimate was made for where the coverage estimate was made for a simple rectangular footprint. a simple rectangular footprint. a simple rectangular footprint. However, we could use a much more However, we could use a much more However, we could use a much more sophisticated footprint if we wanted. sophisticated footprint if we wanted. sophisticated footprint if we wanted. For example, in addition to estimating For example, in addition to estimating For example, in addition to estimating the coverage for region A here, in the the coverage for region A here, in the the coverage for region A here, in the same shader invocation, we could also same shader invocation, we could also same shader invocation, we could also compute the coverage ratio estimate of compute the coverage ratio estimate of compute the coverage ratio estimate of this inner region B as well. this inner region B as well. this inner region B as well. Then, we could use arbitrary linear Then, we could use arbitrary linear Then, we could use arbitrary linear combinations of these two ratios to use combinations of these two ratios to use combinations of these two ratios to use as our blend parameter. as our blend parameter. as our blend parameter. Choosing a greater weight for A here as Choosing a greater weight for A here as Choosing a greater weight for A here as opposed to B would give us a sort of opposed to B would give us a sort of opposed to B would give us a sort of center-weighted scheme as opposed to the center-weighted scheme as opposed to the center-weighted scheme as opposed to the uniform scheme that we've been using so uniform scheme that we've been using so uniform scheme that we've been using so far. far. far. Of course, we can take any linear Of course, we can take any linear Of course, we can take any linear combination of any set of windows we combination of any set of windows we combination of any set of windows we want. want. want. If we needed very accurately sampled If we needed very accurately sampled If we needed very accurately sampled glyphs with extreme anisotropy, we could glyphs with extreme anisotropy, we could glyphs with extreme anisotropy, we could use a linear combination of ratios that use a linear combination of ratios that use a linear combination of ratios that approximated the ellipse of anisotropy, approximated the ellipse of anisotropy, approximated the ellipse of anisotropy, for example. for example. for example. This is referred to as footprint This is referred to as footprint This is referred to as footprint assembly and is the basis behind many assembly and is the basis behind many assembly and is the basis behind many texture filtering algorithms. texture filtering algorithms. texture filtering algorithms. Another point to mention is that you Another point to mention is that you Another point to mention is that you don't have to store glyph curves in the don't have to store glyph curves in the don't have to store glyph curves in the original orientation. original orientation. original orientation. By rotating the control points of the By rotating the control points of the By rotating the control points of the glyph, you can store curves that can do glyph, you can store curves that can do glyph, you can store curves that can do rectangular coverage estimates that rectangular coverage estimates that rectangular coverage estimates that aren't axis-aligned with the original aren't axis-aligned with the original aren't axis-aligned with the original coordinate space. coordinate space. coordinate space. Note that if you do this, you won't be Note that if you do this, you won't be Note that if you do this, you won't be able to store the rotated curves with able to store the rotated curves with able to store the rotated curves with only 16 bits of precision anymore. So, only 16 bits of precision anymore. So, only 16 bits of precision anymore. So, personally, I didn't find this personally, I didn't find this personally, I didn't find this worthwhile. worthwhile. worthwhile. A potentially more interesting A potentially more interesting A potentially more interesting application of this trick is subpixel application of this trick is subpixel application of this trick is subpixel filtering. filtering. filtering. Instead of computing the coverage for a Instead of computing the coverage for a Instead of computing the coverage for a square like this, square like this, square like this, you could instead use windows that you could instead use windows that you could instead use windows that approximately overlap the subpixels. approximately overlap the subpixels. approximately overlap the subpixels. Then, you would use these coverage Then, you would use these coverage Then, you would use these coverage estimates to drive the alpha components estimates to drive the alpha components estimates to drive the alpha components of a dual-source blend. of a dual-source blend. of a dual-source blend. The overlap here is needed to avoid The overlap here is needed to avoid The overlap here is needed to avoid excessive color fringing, but the trick excessive color fringing, but the trick excessive color fringing, but the trick works quite well in my testing. works quite well in my testing. works quite well in my testing. You could go crazy and support weirder You could go crazy and support weirder You could go crazy and support weirder pixel geometries if you wanted to. pixel geometries if you wanted to. pixel geometries if you wanted to. So, you're probably asking, "Okay, that So, you're probably asking, "Okay, that So, you're probably asking, "Okay, that all sounds great, but how does it all sounds great, but how does it all sounds great, but how does it perform?" perform?" perform?" To test this, I rendered this scene that To test this, I rendered this scene that To test this, I rendered this scene that you see in front of you with the couple you see in front of you with the couple you see in front of you with the couple different fonts on a few GPUs. different fonts on a few GPUs. different fonts on a few GPUs. This is the Geist font from Vercel. This is the Geist font from Vercel. This is the Geist font from Vercel. And this is the Myriad font. And this is the Myriad font. And this is the Myriad font. This font has about four to five times This font has about four to five times This font has about four to five times as many curves per glyph as the Geist as many curves per glyph as the Geist as many curves per glyph as the Geist font, so it's significantly more font, so it's significantly more font, so it's significantly more challenging. challenging. challenging. Let's first look at some timings before Let's first look at some timings before Let's first look at some timings before any serious optimization work was done. any serious optimization work was done. any serious optimization work was done. These scenes were rendered at 1440p on These scenes were rendered at 1440p on These scenes were rendered at 1440p on all these GPUs, and all clock speeds all these GPUs, and all clock speeds all these GPUs, and all clock speeds were set to stable. were set to stable. were set to stable. Geist renders okay on all these GPUs, Geist renders okay on all these GPUs, Geist renders okay on all these GPUs, but you can tell that the more but you can tell that the more but you can tell that the more complicated font is a real struggle, complicated font is a real struggle, complicated font is a real struggle, especially on the 2060, which I would especially on the 2060, which I would especially on the 2060, which I would consider a pretty typical budget card. consider a pretty typical budget card. consider a pretty typical budget card. And these are some of the timings after And these are some of the timings after And these are some of the timings after a few optimization passes. These timings a few optimization passes. These timings a few optimization passes. These timings are a lot healthier and quite shippable. are a lot healthier and quite shippable. are a lot healthier and quite shippable. The hard case on the budget card still The hard case on the budget card still The hard case on the budget card still only takes just north of the third of a only takes just north of the third of a only takes just north of the third of a millisecond, which I consider pretty millisecond, which I consider pretty millisecond, which I consider pretty acceptable for what was being rendered. acceptable for what was being rendered. acceptable for what was being rendered. The main optimization that was useful The main optimization that was useful The main optimization that was useful was actually partitioning the glyphs. was actually partitioning the glyphs. was actually partitioning the glyphs. Here, this loop was what the original Here, this loop was what the original Here, this loop was what the original loop looked like. loop looked like. loop looked like. Pretty simple. You take a glyph, you Pretty simple. You take a glyph, you Pretty simple. You take a glyph, you look at each of its curves, you load look at each of its curves, you load look at each of its curves, you load each of these curves from a buffer, and each of these curves from a buffer, and each of these curves from a buffer, and then you execute the scanline sweep. With the optimization, instead, we have With the optimization, instead, we have every single glyph partitioned into a every single glyph partitioned into a every single glyph partitioned into a number of horizontal stripes. number of horizontal stripes. number of horizontal stripes. This is a similar optimization used in a This is a similar optimization used in a This is a similar optimization used in a number of other rasterizers, and it number of other rasterizers, and it number of other rasterizers, and it really does help because you're really does help because you're really does help because you're essentially limiting the number of essentially limiting the number of essentially limiting the number of curves that a pixel might encounter. curves that a pixel might encounter. curves that a pixel might encounter. It was pretty clear from looking at the It was pretty clear from looking at the It was pretty clear from looking at the profiles what needed to be optimized. profiles what needed to be optimized. profiles what needed to be optimized. In the unoptimized version, every pixel In the unoptimized version, every pixel In the unoptimized version, every pixel has to look at a lot of curves that has to look at a lot of curves that has to look at a lot of curves that actually aren't intersecting the actually aren't intersecting the actually aren't intersecting the scanline at all. scanline at all. scanline at all. That's why most of the samples in the That's why most of the samples in the That's why most of the samples in the unoptimized shader are memory loads. unoptimized shader are memory loads. unoptimized shader are memory loads. On the other hand, in the optimized On the other hand, in the optimized On the other hand, in the optimized shader, most pixels can pick up only the shader, most pixels can pick up only the shader, most pixels can pick up only the curves that are relevant to its scan curves that are relevant to its scan curves that are relevant to its scan line, and so most of the instructions line, and so most of the instructions line, and so most of the instructions here sampled are in the ALU and FMA here sampled are in the ALU and FMA here sampled are in the ALU and FMA units. units. units. It's a similar story on AMD as well. It's a similar story on AMD as well. It's a similar story on AMD as well. At the top, you can see that a lot more At the top, you can see that a lot more At the top, you can see that a lot more time is spent waiting for buffer loads time is spent waiting for buffer loads time is spent waiting for buffer loads to finish. to finish. to finish. While I'm reasonably happy with where While I'm reasonably happy with where While I'm reasonably happy with where things ended up at the moment, there are things ended up at the moment, there are things ended up at the moment, there are a few things that are potentially worth a few things that are potentially worth a few things that are potentially worth improving in the future. improving in the future. improving in the future. First, I'll probably implement a compute First, I'll probably implement a compute First, I'll probably implement a compute shader version of this. shader version of this. shader version of this. This isn't so much of an optimization in This isn't so much of an optimization in This isn't so much of an optimization in and of itself, but it does enable the and of itself, but it does enable the and of itself, but it does enable the next two optimizations. next two optimizations. next two optimizations. In a compute shader, we could rasterize In a compute shader, we could rasterize In a compute shader, we could rasterize one scan line at a time, as opposed to one scan line at a time, as opposed to one scan line at a time, as opposed to one tile at a time, which is the natural one tile at a time, which is the natural one tile at a time, which is the natural way that a pixel shader does its way that a pixel shader does its way that a pixel shader does its grouping. grouping. grouping. For pixel shaders, it's a pretty good For pixel shaders, it's a pretty good For pixel shaders, it's a pretty good assumption that if you are close by to assumption that if you are close by to assumption that if you are close by to another pixel in screen space, you will another pixel in screen space, you will another pixel in screen space, you will probably access the same memory. probably access the same memory. probably access the same memory. In our case, this is not exactly true. In our case, this is not exactly true. In our case, this is not exactly true. Pixels that are adjacent to each other Pixels that are adjacent to each other Pixels that are adjacent to each other vertically might access very different vertically might access very different vertically might access very different memory, depending on which scan line memory, depending on which scan line memory, depending on which scan line they occupy. If we process pixels as scan lines as If we process pixels as scan lines as opposed to tiles, another thing we could opposed to tiles, another thing we could opposed to tiles, another thing we could do is load curves into scalar registers do is load curves into scalar registers do is load curves into scalar registers as opposed to vector registers. as opposed to vector registers. as opposed to vector registers. Vector register pressure hasn't really Vector register pressure hasn't really Vector register pressure hasn't really been an issue for me, but this is been an issue for me, but this is been an issue for me, but this is something to keep in mind if you run something to keep in mind if you run something to keep in mind if you run into that problem. into that problem. into that problem. Unrelated, but in the future, I may take Unrelated, but in the future, I may take Unrelated, but in the future, I may take some time to implement more accurate some time to implement more accurate some time to implement more accurate anisotropic filtering. anisotropic filtering. anisotropic filtering. Earlier, I mentioned that we could Earlier, I mentioned that we could Earlier, I mentioned that we could manipulate pixel windows and take linear manipulate pixel windows and take linear manipulate pixel windows and take linear combinations of curve average estimates combinations of curve average estimates combinations of curve average estimates in order to approximate the ellipse of in order to approximate the ellipse of in order to approximate the ellipse of anisotropy. anisotropy. anisotropy. I've only experimented with this a I've only experimented with this a I've only experimented with this a little bit, but I haven't actually little bit, but I haven't actually little bit, but I haven't actually needed it for my current project. needed it for my current project. needed it for my current project. I might do this in the future, though. I might do this in the future, though. I might do this in the future, though. Something else I also haven't Something else I also haven't Something else I also haven't implemented, but had started, was implemented, but had started, was implemented, but had started, was vertical partitioning. vertical partitioning. vertical partitioning. It probably makes sense to split curves It probably makes sense to split curves It probably makes sense to split curves up in such a way that they are sorted up in such a way that they are sorted up in such a way that they are sorted from left to right, or somehow from left to right, or somehow from left to right, or somehow vertically partitioned, so you can vertically partitioned, so you can vertically partitioned, so you can quickly discard all the curves that are quickly discard all the curves that are quickly discard all the curves that are fully to the right of the pixel you're fully to the right of the pixel you're fully to the right of the pixel you're looking at. looking at. looking at. This specific optimization is likely This specific optimization is likely This specific optimization is likely very font dependent in terms of how very font dependent in terms of how very font dependent in terms of how effective it is. effective it is. effective it is. In my early experiments, I actually In my early experiments, I actually In my early experiments, I actually didn't see any speed up at all, which is didn't see any speed up at all, which is didn't see any speed up at all, which is why I haven't bothered finalizing it. why I haven't bothered finalizing it. why I haven't bothered finalizing it. It's possible though that for some It's possible though that for some It's possible though that for some fonts, this type of thing might be even fonts, this type of thing might be even fonts, this type of thing might be even necessary. necessary. necessary. And last, another thing I think might be And last, another thing I think might be And last, another thing I think might be worth exploring is actually some form of worth exploring is actually some form of worth exploring is actually some form of curve compression. curve compression. curve compression. Even though I'm storing all the curve Even though I'm storing all the curve Even though I'm storing all the curve data as 16-bit floats, there is still data as 16-bit floats, there is still data as 16-bit floats, there is still quite a bit of redundancy because a lot quite a bit of redundancy because a lot quite a bit of redundancy because a lot of the control points are actually of the control points are actually of the control points are actually shared between neighboring curves. shared between neighboring curves. shared between neighboring curves. I'll probably circle back to this in the I'll probably circle back to this in the I'll probably circle back to this in the future when I add support for CJK future when I add support for CJK future when I add support for CJK languages or other languages that have a languages or other languages that have a languages or other languages that have a lot more glyphs than English. If you made it this far, I'm truly If you made it this far, I'm truly impressed and appreciate you for impressed and appreciate you for impressed and appreciate you for sticking around. sticking around. sticking around. Overall, I'm happy with how the scanline Overall, I'm happy with how the scanline Overall, I'm happy with how the scanline sweeper turned out, but I'm curious what sweeper turned out, but I'm curious what sweeper turned out, but I'm curious what you think as well. Let me know in the you think as well. Let me know in the you think as well. Let me know in the comments. comments. comments. Also, check out the associated post if Also, check out the associated post if Also, check out the associated post if you're interested in learning more. you're interested in learning more. you're interested in learning more. With that, I'll see you in the next one.