There's no way around it and no sugar There's no way around it and no sugar coating it. Use of large language coating it. Use of large language coating it. Use of large language models, often just called AI, is models, often just called AI, is models, often just called AI, is proliferating. It's everywhere and it's proliferating. It's everywhere and it's proliferating. It's everywhere and it's only going to happen more. And on social only going to happen more. And on social only going to happen more. And on social media like YouTube and Instagram, it is media like YouTube and Instagram, it is media like YouTube and Instagram, it is particularly pernitious. Because while particularly pernitious. Because while particularly pernitious. Because while we're decent at spotting LLM writing, we're decent at spotting LLM writing, we're decent at spotting LLM writing, it's much harder when it's delivered it's much harder when it's delivered it's much harder when it's delivered enthusiastically by an influencer. Those enthusiastically by an influencer. Those enthusiastically by an influencer. Those Instagram shorts with links to a free Instagram shorts with links to a free Instagram shorts with links to a free PDF resource, they're mostly written by PDF resource, they're mostly written by PDF resource, they're mostly written by LLMs. And the resource is almost always LLMs. And the resource is almost always LLMs. And the resource is almost always entirely artificially generated. But entirely artificially generated. But entirely artificially generated. But it's not just here. I've seen polyglot it's not just here. I've seen polyglot it's not just here. I've seen polyglot influencers reading scripts straight influencers reading scripts straight influencers reading scripts straight from chat GBT unedited. I've seen news from chat GBT unedited. I've seen news from chat GBT unedited. I've seen news stories, essays, and magazines. Even stories, essays, and magazines. Even stories, essays, and magazines. Even people responding to emails who start people responding to emails who start people responding to emails who start with, "Sure thing. Here's an email with, "Sure thing. Here's an email with, "Sure thing. Here's an email response." With a cordial tone. Not to response." With a cordial tone. Not to response." With a cordial tone. Not to mention the literary award scandals. The mention the literary award scandals. The mention the literary award scandals. The problem is that LLMs make it absurdly problem is that LLMs make it absurdly problem is that LLMs make it absurdly easy to write much, much more text, and easy to write much, much more text, and easy to write much, much more text, and they do have legitimate uses. They can they do have legitimate uses. They can they do have legitimate uses. They can be a tremendous time and money saver, be a tremendous time and money saver, be a tremendous time and money saver, especially when it comes to tedious or especially when it comes to tedious or especially when it comes to tedious or formulaic work. But there's formulaic work. But there's formulaic work. But there's understandably strong push back against understandably strong push back against understandably strong push back against LLM use for a variety of reasons, LLM use for a variety of reasons, LLM use for a variety of reasons, ranging from the imminently practical to ranging from the imminently practical to ranging from the imminently practical to absurd moral panic. As an aside, absurd moral panic. As an aside, absurd moral panic. As an aside, something that is often overlooked is something that is often overlooked is something that is often overlooked is that they're also a gradient technology. that they're also a gradient technology. that they're also a gradient technology. I use an iPad with a great keyboard case I use an iPad with a great keyboard case I use an iPad with a great keyboard case to write on the subway. I love mine. Not to write on the subway. I love mine. Not to write on the subway. I love mine. Not sponsored, but I'll link in the sponsored, but I'll link in the sponsored, but I'll link in the description. It's pretty great if you're description. It's pretty great if you're description. It's pretty great if you're interested. Anyway, when I typed for a interested. Anyway, when I typed for a interested. Anyway, when I typed for a VV, I got an autocomplete suggestion VV, I got an autocomplete suggestion VV, I got an autocomplete suggestion with the entire phrase for a variety of with the entire phrase for a variety of with the entire phrase for a variety of reasons. That's a form of language reasons. That's a form of language reasons. That's a form of language modeling that is directly related to modeling that is directly related to modeling that is directly related to LLMs, but about which nobody cares. The LLMs, but about which nobody cares. The LLMs, but about which nobody cares. The deeper fears are that people are no deeper fears are that people are no deeper fears are that people are no longer really thinking for themselves longer really thinking for themselves longer really thinking for themselves and will eventually be unable to do so. and will eventually be unable to do so. and will eventually be unable to do so. There's a fear that we can be There's a fear that we can be There's a fear that we can be manipulated by thinking machines. Don't manipulated by thinking machines. Don't manipulated by thinking machines. Don't worry, we'll get into just how worry, we'll get into just how worry, we'll get into just how intelligent artificial intelligence intelligent artificial intelligence intelligent artificial intelligence actually is. Or even worse, that our actually is. Or even worse, that our actually is. Or even worse, that our thinking can be manipulated by, well, thinking can be manipulated by, well, thinking can be manipulated by, well, unthinking agents. There's also a moral unthinking agents. There's also a moral unthinking agents. There's also a moral panic that takes a variety of forms, panic that takes a variety of forms, panic that takes a variety of forms, most often over water use from people most often over water use from people most often over water use from people who charge their iPhone, iPad, laptop, who charge their iPhone, iPad, laptop, who charge their iPhone, iPad, laptop, computer, television, modem, computer, television, modem, computer, television, modem, refrigerator, dishwasher, washing refrigerator, dishwasher, washing refrigerator, dishwasher, washing machine, regular lights, Christmas light machine, regular lights, Christmas light machine, regular lights, Christmas light display, and Bitcoin farming servers display, and Bitcoin farming servers display, and Bitcoin farming servers from the local hydroelectric grid. while from the local hydroelectric grid. while from the local hydroelectric grid. while taking long showers and watering their taking long showers and watering their taking long showers and watering their well-manicured lawns. There's a fear of well-manicured lawns. There's a fear of well-manicured lawns. There's a fear of access to key systems being taken over access to key systems being taken over access to key systems being taken over by a machine that kills us all, which is by a machine that kills us all, which is by a machine that kills us all, which is a deep part of American culture in a deep part of American culture in a deep part of American culture in particular, spanning everything from particular, spanning everything from particular, spanning everything from iroot to the Matrix to Skynet from iroot to the Matrix to Skynet from iroot to the Matrix to Skynet from Terminator to War Games with Matthew Terminator to War Games with Matthew Terminator to War Games with Matthew Brderick. Shall we play a game? There's Brderick. Shall we play a game? There's Brderick. Shall we play a game? There's also the fears of the investment bubble also the fears of the investment bubble also the fears of the investment bubble from those of us who remember the from those of us who remember the from those of us who remember the housing bubble that burst in 2008 or housing bubble that burst in 2008 or housing bubble that burst in 2008 or have read about the tulip craze in the have read about the tulip craze in the have read about the tulip craze in the Netherlands in the 1600s. Seriously, if Netherlands in the 1600s. Seriously, if Netherlands in the 1600s. Seriously, if you're not familiar with it, go read you're not familiar with it, go read you're not familiar with it, go read about it. It is fantastic. It is about it. It is fantastic. It is about it. It is fantastic. It is ridiculous. It's also simply moralized ridiculous. It's also simply moralized ridiculous. It's also simply moralized in an increasingly polarized political in an increasingly polarized political in an increasingly polarized political climate. Musk has an LLM. All LLMs are climate. Musk has an LLM. All LLMs are climate. Musk has an LLM. All LLMs are obviously bad. I still don't forgive him obviously bad. I still don't forgive him obviously bad. I still don't forgive him for ruining one of the best sci-fi word for ruining one of the best sci-fi word for ruining one of the best sci-fi word coinages in the history of sci-fi. There coinages in the history of sci-fi. There coinages in the history of sci-fi. There are ways to tell whether something was are ways to tell whether something was are ways to tell whether something was written by an LLM, though none of the written by an LLM, though none of the written by an LLM, though none of the discussion that I've seen so far discussion that I've seen so far discussion that I've seen so far actually mentions what I think is the actually mentions what I think is the actually mentions what I think is the clearest tell. And of course, nothing is clearest tell. And of course, nothing is clearest tell. And of course, nothing is foolproof. In fact, fools are precisely foolproof. In fact, fools are precisely foolproof. In fact, fools are precisely the failure case for what I think is the the failure case for what I think is the the failure case for what I think is the most robust method. Let me explain. If most robust method. Let me explain. If most robust method. Let me explain. If you're new to the channel, I'm Dr. you're new to the channel, I'm Dr. you're new to the channel, I'm Dr. Taylor Jones. I've got a PhD in Taylor Jones. I've got a PhD in Taylor Jones. I've got a PhD in linguistics from the University of linguistics from the University of linguistics from the University of Pennsylvania. And here on the channel, I Pennsylvania. And here on the channel, I Pennsylvania. And here on the channel, I discuss everything related to language, discuss everything related to language, discuss everything related to language, linguistics, language learning, and linguistics, language learning, and linguistics, language learning, and culture. If you're into those topics, be culture. If you're into those topics, be culture. If you're into those topics, be sure to subscribe and ring the bell for sure to subscribe and ring the bell for sure to subscribe and ring the bell for notifications. Today, we're talking notifications. Today, we're talking notifications. Today, we're talking about how to catch an impostor. about how to catch an impostor. about how to catch an impostor. &gt;&gt; Don't fear these things. They're not &gt;&gt; Don't fear these things. They're not &gt;&gt; Don't fear these things. They're not real. real. real. &gt;&gt; No, sorry. We're talking about how to &gt;&gt; No, sorry. We're talking about how to &gt;&gt; No, sorry. We're talking about how to spot LLM writing beyond the obvious. I'm spot LLM writing beyond the obvious. I'm spot LLM writing beyond the obvious. I'm Dr. Taylor Jones and this is Language Dr. Taylor Jones and this is Language Dr. Taylor Jones and this is Language Jones. LLM writing has distinctive patterns, at LLM writing has distinctive patterns, at least out of the box, which are so least out of the box, which are so least out of the box, which are so robust that there's an entire genre of robust that there's an entire genre of robust that there's an entire genre of Tik Tok making fun of how they talk. Tik Tok making fun of how they talk. Tik Tok making fun of how they talk. &gt;&gt; They're not irrational. You're &gt;&gt; They're not irrational. You're &gt;&gt; They're not irrational. You're responding to a perceived sustainability responding to a perceived sustainability responding to a perceived sustainability crisis at a universal scale. That's crisis at a universal scale. That's crisis at a universal scale. That's macrolevel thinking because they're macrolevel thinking because they're macrolevel thinking because they're actually amazing at what they do. The actually amazing at what they do. The actually amazing at what they do. The problem is that none of the tells on problem is that none of the tells on problem is that none of the tells on their own are valid, but we'll get to their own are valid, but we'll get to their own are valid, but we'll get to that in a minute. Think about chat GBT that in a minute. Think about chat GBT that in a minute. Think about chat GBT voice. You probably have an idea of what voice. You probably have an idea of what voice. You probably have an idea of what it is. It's chipper and conversational. it is. It's chipper and conversational. it is. It's chipper and conversational. Responding with sure thing, sure thing. Responding with sure thing, sure thing. Responding with sure thing, sure thing. And explaining why whatever you asked is And explaining why whatever you asked is And explaining why whatever you asked is a really great question. a really great question. a really great question. &gt;&gt; That's a really great question. &gt;&gt; That's a really great question. &gt;&gt; That's a really great question. &gt;&gt; There are rhetorical devices that are &gt;&gt; There are rhetorical devices that are &gt;&gt; There are rhetorical devices that are used to the point of absurdity, most used to the point of absurdity, most used to the point of absurdity, most notably a comparison. It's not X, it's notably a comparison. It's not X, it's notably a comparison. It's not X, it's Y. I just saw this referred to as the Y. I just saw this referred to as the Y. I just saw this referred to as the desjouro construct and I love that desjouro construct and I love that desjouro construct and I love that &gt;&gt; it's not delivery, it's desouro. &gt;&gt; it's not delivery, it's desouro. &gt;&gt; it's not delivery, it's desouro. &gt;&gt; Not to be confused with the Maybelline &gt;&gt; Not to be confused with the Maybelline &gt;&gt; Not to be confused with the Maybelline hedge. There's punchy ad copy writing hedge. There's punchy ad copy writing hedge. There's punchy ad copy writing like breaking sentences into sentence like breaking sentences into sentence like breaking sentences into sentence fragments. Honestly, the catch and so fragments. Honestly, the catch and so fragments. Honestly, the catch and so on. There's explicit validation of your on. There's explicit validation of your on. There's explicit validation of your or its own arguments and that matters. or its own arguments and that matters. or its own arguments and that matters. Each of the big LLMs has their own Each of the big LLMs has their own Each of the big LLMs has their own overused pet words like delve, honestly, overused pet words like delve, honestly, overused pet words like delve, honestly, actually, and that matters, gap, and actually, and that matters, gap, and actually, and that matters, gap, and yes, even blueprint. Some of you can yes, even blueprint. Some of you can yes, even blueprint. Some of you can already see the problem though. Oh, and already see the problem though. Oh, and already see the problem though. Oh, and Gemini loves buckets and gaps for some Gemini loves buckets and gaps for some Gemini loves buckets and gaps for some reason. No idea why buckets. Claude reason. No idea why buckets. Claude reason. No idea why buckets. Claude loves toolkit and move. Any one of these loves toolkit and move. Any one of these loves toolkit and move. Any one of these is not evidence of AI, but all of them is not evidence of AI, but all of them is not evidence of AI, but all of them together are strongly suggestive of LLM together are strongly suggestive of LLM together are strongly suggestive of LLM use. And it's gotten to the point that use. And it's gotten to the point that use. And it's gotten to the point that people have LLMs create anti-LM style people have LLMs create anti-LM style people have LLMs create anti-LM style guides. I've got one for Claude. People guides. I've got one for Claude. People guides. I've got one for Claude. People have rightly become skeptical of LLM use have rightly become skeptical of LLM use have rightly become skeptical of LLM use because depending on the writing task, because depending on the writing task, because depending on the writing task, it can feel like dishonesty. I think it can feel like dishonesty. I think it can feel like dishonesty. I think Hank Green has a sensible take and that Hank Green has a sensible take and that Hank Green has a sensible take and that he'll give it a pass if it's clear the he'll give it a pass if it's clear the he'll give it a pass if it's clear the person used an LLM to generate some text person used an LLM to generate some text person used an LLM to generate some text but clearly had the idea themsself and but clearly had the idea themsself and but clearly had the idea themsself and we can all agree that for instance a we can all agree that for instance a we can all agree that for instance a novel or an academic paper should be novel or an academic paper should be novel or an academic paper should be entirely written by a thinking human. entirely written by a thinking human. entirely written by a thinking human. &gt;&gt; All right, so I scripted filmed and &gt;&gt; All right, so I scripted filmed and &gt;&gt; All right, so I scripted filmed and recorded this a few days before Hank recorded this a few days before Hank recorded this a few days before Hank Green just fell on his sword very Green just fell on his sword very Green just fell on his sword very publicly about AI misuse and maybe AI publicly about AI misuse and maybe AI publicly about AI misuse and maybe AI addiction. So, I should probably be addiction. So, I should probably be addiction. So, I should probably be really clear about exactly what he said really clear about exactly what he said really clear about exactly what he said that I thought resonated because it that I thought resonated because it that I thought resonated because it wasn't all of that. I remember one video wasn't all of that. I remember one video wasn't all of that. I remember one video where he was talking about other people where he was talking about other people where he was talking about other people using AI and he said that he tends to using AI and he said that he tends to using AI and he said that he tends to give creators a pass if he sees some of give creators a pass if he sees some of give creators a pass if he sees some of the hallmarks of AI like some of the the hallmarks of AI like some of the the hallmarks of AI like some of the rhetorical flourishes if it's clear to rhetorical flourishes if it's clear to rhetorical flourishes if it's clear to him that he didn't understand the him that he didn't understand the him that he didn't understand the information or know the information and information or know the information and information or know the information and that the other person did but maybe that the other person did but maybe that the other person did but maybe fleshed out an outline or I don't know fleshed out an outline or I don't know fleshed out an outline or I don't know reworked a paragraph using AI to make it reworked a paragraph using AI to make it reworked a paragraph using AI to make it a little bit better suited for the a little bit better suited for the a little bit better suited for the target audience that they have. That target audience that they have. That target audience that they have. That makes sense to me. is kind of makes sense to me. is kind of makes sense to me. is kind of reasonable. To give a concrete example, reasonable. To give a concrete example, reasonable. To give a concrete example, I've read this book multiple times. I've I've read this book multiple times. I've I've read this book multiple times. I've taught it multiple times. And if I taught it multiple times. And if I taught it multiple times. And if I wanted to create a YouTube video about wanted to create a YouTube video about wanted to create a YouTube video about it, which I might do, I can sit down and it, which I might do, I can sit down and it, which I might do, I can sit down and I can write an outline by hand where I I can write an outline by hand where I I can write an outline by hand where I know that it's got everything that's in know that it's got everything that's in know that it's got everything that's in the book that I want to talk about. Or I the book that I want to talk about. Or I the book that I want to talk about. Or I can brain dump uh to Claude or some can brain dump uh to Claude or some can brain dump uh to Claude or some other uh AI and I can have it write an other uh AI and I can have it write an other uh AI and I can have it write an outline which I can then go back, outline which I can then go back, outline which I can then go back, review, compare against my notes, review, compare against my notes, review, compare against my notes, compare against my teaching notes, compare against my teaching notes, compare against my teaching notes, compare against the actual book, and compare against the actual book, and compare against the actual book, and make sure that it makes sense and is make sure that it makes sense and is make sure that it makes sense and is correct. That takes me less time than correct. That takes me less time than correct. That takes me less time than doing the original writing by hand. And doing the original writing by hand. And doing the original writing by hand. And that's just because I write slower than that's just because I write slower than that's just because I write slower than Claude does. But for something where I Claude does. But for something where I Claude does. But for something where I don't know the information, that's kind don't know the information, that's kind don't know the information, that's kind of ridiculous, right? Then you Google. of ridiculous, right? Then you Google. of ridiculous, right? Then you Google. Then you're basically just getting me Then you're basically just getting me Then you're basically just getting me doing a dramatic reading of my own doing a dramatic reading of my own doing a dramatic reading of my own Google results, which I don't know if Google results, which I don't know if Google results, which I don't know if they're accurate. So that's something they're accurate. So that's something they're accurate. So that's something that I think is a bad use of it. But that I think is a bad use of it. But that I think is a bad use of it. But maybe a little assistance in outlining maybe a little assistance in outlining maybe a little assistance in outlining something that you definitely already something that you definitely already something that you definitely already know that I can see being an acceptable know that I can see being an acceptable know that I can see being an acceptable use case for AI. But when you get to my use case for AI. But when you get to my use case for AI. But when you get to my brother and my wife had an intervention brother and my wife had an intervention brother and my wife had an intervention because I'm getting too much of a because I'm getting too much of a because I'm getting too much of a dopamine hit from AI, that's a problem. dopamine hit from AI, that's a problem. dopamine hit from AI, that's a problem. So yeah, bad timing on my part, quoting So yeah, bad timing on my part, quoting So yeah, bad timing on my part, quoting Hank Green, but what are you going to Hank Green, but what are you going to Hank Green, but what are you going to do? But here's the problem with being do? But here's the problem with being do? But here's the problem with being constantly on the lookout for LLM constantly on the lookout for LLM constantly on the lookout for LLM assisted writing. LLMs follow a lot of assisted writing. LLMs follow a lot of assisted writing. LLMs follow a lot of writing best practices. My academic writing best practices. My academic writing best practices. My academic writing definitely benefited from a book writing definitely benefited from a book writing definitely benefited from a book called They Say I Say which explicitly called They Say I Say which explicitly called They Say I Say which explicitly teaches to situate the reader by teaches to situate the reader by teaches to situate the reader by discussing others claims and then discussing others claims and then discussing others claims and then introduce your own and expand upon them. introduce your own and expand upon them. introduce your own and expand upon them. One way of doing this includes One way of doing this includes One way of doing this includes comparison. For instance, it's not AI comparison. For instance, it's not AI comparison. For instance, it's not AI dril. It's actually classical rhetoric. dril. It's actually classical rhetoric. dril. It's actually classical rhetoric. I wrote that myself. It's a normal I wrote that myself. It's a normal I wrote that myself. It's a normal rhetorical flourish. And my academic rhetorical flourish. And my academic rhetorical flourish. And my academic writing and that of my adviserss and the writing and that of my adviserss and the writing and that of my adviserss and the academics I read a lot of includes lots academics I read a lot of includes lots academics I read a lot of includes lots of parentheticals thought set off with m of parentheticals thought set off with m of parentheticals thought set off with m dashes and groupings of three. That's dashes and groupings of three. That's dashes and groupings of three. That's classical rhetoric. So people are not classical rhetoric. So people are not classical rhetoric. So people are not good at detecting AI because AI now good at detecting AI because AI now good at detecting AI because AI now passes a Turing test. That's kind of a passes a Turing test. That's kind of a passes a Turing test. That's kind of a tautology in terms of the definition of tautology in terms of the definition of tautology in terms of the definition of a touring test, but I hope you'll a touring test, but I hope you'll a touring test, but I hope you'll indulge me. LLMs write well enough to indulge me. LLMs write well enough to indulge me. LLMs write well enough to seem human, which is why people get seem human, which is why people get seem human, which is why people get convinced they're the messiah or they convinced they're the messiah or they convinced they're the messiah or they should eat three cigarettes a day or should eat three cigarettes a day or should eat three cigarettes a day or whatever. There's a better way to tell, whatever. There's a better way to tell, whatever. There's a better way to tell, and I haven't seen anybody discuss it, and I haven't seen anybody discuss it, and I haven't seen anybody discuss it, and I think not for nothing, that is the and I think not for nothing, that is the and I think not for nothing, that is the real indicator of the literacy crisis. real indicator of the literacy crisis. real indicator of the literacy crisis. Let me explain. There's just a tiny bit Let me explain. There's just a tiny bit Let me explain. There's just a tiny bit of background needed that most people of background needed that most people of background needed that most people don't know or can't remember. So, bear don't know or can't remember. So, bear don't know or can't remember. So, bear with me for just a second. LLMs, despite with me for just a second. LLMs, despite with me for just a second. LLMs, despite being marketed as artificial being marketed as artificial being marketed as artificial intelligence, are not actually thinking. intelligence, are not actually thinking. intelligence, are not actually thinking. They're autocomplete on steroids. They They're autocomplete on steroids. They They're autocomplete on steroids. They produce an artifact that is the product produce an artifact that is the product produce an artifact that is the product of statistical transformations of of statistical transformations of of statistical transformations of numbers that correspond to words or numbers that correspond to words or numbers that correspond to words or morphes or letter sequences that are morphes or letter sequences that are morphes or letter sequences that are based on engrams. Engrams are just a based on engrams. Engrams are just a based on engrams. Engrams are just a generalization of biograms, which itself generalization of biograms, which itself generalization of biograms, which itself are two words or characters that appear are two words or characters that appear are two words or characters that appear side by side in a text. They just have a side by side in a text. They just have a side by side in a text. They just have a lot of computational power behind them. lot of computational power behind them. lot of computational power behind them. and complicated recursive neural and complicated recursive neural and complicated recursive neural networks doing feed forward feedback networks doing feed forward feedback networks doing feed forward feedback tuning with generalized adversarial tuning with generalized adversarial tuning with generalized adversarial models and who knows what else since my models and who knows what else since my models and who knows what else since my knowledge of this comes from when I knowledge of this comes from when I knowledge of this comes from when I rolled my own a decade ago and I know rolled my own a decade ago and I know rolled my own a decade ago and I know the math and science have really the math and science have really the math and science have really progressed since then. Point is though progressed since then. Point is though progressed since then. Point is though that they're engram TF. That's term that they're engram TF. That's term that they're engram TF. That's term frequency inverse document frequency. So frequency inverse document frequency. So frequency inverse document frequency. So don't come at me in the comments for don't come at me in the comments for don't come at me in the comments for saying IDF you lunatics. And basically saying IDF you lunatics. And basically saying IDF you lunatics. And basically next word predictors like I used when I next word predictors like I used when I next word predictors like I used when I hit tab to select half a sentence in hit tab to select half a sentence in hit tab to select half a sentence in writing the script. Just orders of writing the script. Just orders of writing the script. Just orders of magnitudes larger and faster. This means magnitudes larger and faster. This means magnitudes larger and faster. This means they do not think. There is no thinking. they do not think. There is no thinking. they do not think. There is no thinking. There is no reasoning. They are dumb but There is no reasoning. They are dumb but There is no reasoning. They are dumb but fast. They're just faster at being dumb. fast. They're just faster at being dumb. fast. They're just faster at being dumb. Being dumb faster than everybody else Being dumb faster than everybody else Being dumb faster than everybody else gives a lot of people the appearance of gives a lot of people the appearance of gives a lot of people the appearance of intelligence. It's really hard to wrap intelligence. It's really hard to wrap intelligence. It's really hard to wrap your head around this because they sure your head around this because they sure your head around this because they sure look and sound like they're answering look and sound like they're answering look and sound like they're answering your questions. They're not. What they your questions. They're not. What they your questions. They're not. What they do is given a prompt which is do is given a prompt which is do is given a prompt which is transformed into a string of digits for transformed into a string of digits for transformed into a string of digits for them, they provide an optimized string them, they provide an optimized string them, they provide an optimized string of digits in return. The optimization of digits in return. The optimization of digits in return. The optimization really means that what they provide really means that what they provide really means that what they provide after being transformed from digits back after being transformed from digits back after being transformed from digits back to letters and spaces is an artifact to letters and spaces is an artifact to letters and spaces is an artifact that appears similar to how an answer that appears similar to how an answer that appears similar to how an answer might appear. Does that make sense? Like might appear. Does that make sense? Like might appear. Does that make sense? Like if you say, "Can you pass the salt?" A if you say, "Can you pass the salt?" A if you say, "Can you pass the salt?" A plausible answer might be yes, no, plausible answer might be yes, no, plausible answer might be yes, no, maybe. Do I sound like a magic maybe. Do I sound like a magic maybe. Do I sound like a magic eightball? Same idea. A less plausible eightball? Same idea. A less plausible eightball? Same idea. A less plausible answer is salt or na is a mineral that. answer is salt or na is a mineral that. answer is salt or na is a mineral that. And a total failure is something like And a total failure is something like And a total failure is something like dstvki was born in 1821 or dstvki was born in 1821 or dstvki was born in 1821 or that yes is not a yes. It's just one of that yes is not a yes. It's just one of that yes is not a yes. It's just one of the set of words that is the highest the set of words that is the highest the set of words that is the highest ranked as appearing like a valid answer. ranked as appearing like a valid answer. ranked as appearing like a valid answer. And this is how you spot them because And this is how you spot them because And this is how you spot them because they're not thinking. They're just they're not thinking. They're just they're not thinking. They're just putting words together. You get words putting words together. You get words putting words together. You get words that go together but that lack semantic that go together but that lack semantic that go together but that lack semantic coherence. They're not manipulating coherence. They're not manipulating coherence. They're not manipulating concepts. They're just manipulating concepts. They're just manipulating concepts. They're just manipulating strings of letters. And yes, I wrote strings of letters. And yes, I wrote strings of letters. And yes, I wrote that last sentence myself, too. So, that last sentence myself, too. So, that last sentence myself, too. So, incoherent but plausible word choices or incoherent but plausible word choices or incoherent but plausible word choices or mixed metaphors along with all those mixed metaphors along with all those mixed metaphors along with all those other clues are the real giveaway. Let other clues are the real giveaway. Let other clues are the real giveaway. Let me give some examples. I recently saw a me give some examples. I recently saw a me give some examples. I recently saw a purported geopolitical analysis of the purported geopolitical analysis of the purported geopolitical analysis of the deployment of naval power during the war deployment of naval power during the war deployment of naval power during the war with Iran. Get your language Jones bingo with Iran. Get your language Jones bingo with Iran. Get your language Jones bingo cards ready. The article had all the cards ready. The article had all the cards ready. The article had all the hallmarks of LLM writing people are hallmarks of LLM writing people are hallmarks of LLM writing people are familiar with, including my peeve, the familiar with, including my peeve, the familiar with, including my peeve, the everexpanding use of quietly and amid. everexpanding use of quietly and amid. everexpanding use of quietly and amid. But it started by describing a military But it started by describing a military But it started by describing a military offense as quote nestled amid a year of offense as quote nestled amid a year of offense as quote nestled amid a year of war. Nestled. Gemini in fleshing out an war. Nestled. Gemini in fleshing out an war. Nestled. Gemini in fleshing out an outline I wrote returned a paragraph outline I wrote returned a paragraph outline I wrote returned a paragraph that included a description of two that included a description of two that included a description of two conceptual categories as two overarching conceptual categories as two overarching conceptual categories as two overarching pillars that undergur the entire pillars that undergur the entire pillars that undergur the entire whatever the we were talking about. whatever the we were talking about. whatever the we were talking about. Overarching pillars are already Overarching pillars are already Overarching pillars are already architecturally incoherent, but architecturally incoherent, but architecturally incoherent, but simultaneously overarching and simultaneously overarching and simultaneously overarching and undergirling is mindbendingly perverse. undergirling is mindbendingly perverse. undergirling is mindbendingly perverse. Jet fuel might not be able to melt steel Jet fuel might not be able to melt steel Jet fuel might not be able to melt steel beams. Bingo. Oh god. But Gemini sure beams. Bingo. Oh god. But Gemini sure beams. Bingo. Oh god. But Gemini sure seems to be able to. For another Gemini seems to be able to. For another Gemini seems to be able to. For another Gemini howler, I got a paragraph that said, howler, I got a paragraph that said, howler, I got a paragraph that said, "Words aren't just empty containers. A "Words aren't just empty containers. A "Words aren't just empty containers. A blank slate to be filled." I can't blank slate to be filled." I can't blank slate to be filled." I can't remember if it said containers or remember if it said containers or remember if it said containers or buckets actually cuz it really loves buckets actually cuz it really loves buckets actually cuz it really loves buckets. Anyway, you can fill a buckets. Anyway, you can fill a buckets. Anyway, you can fill a container. You can fill a slate. Those container. You can fill a slate. Those container. You can fill a slate. Those are common enough co-occurrences. What are common enough co-occurrences. What are common enough co-occurrences. What is entirely opaque to an LLM is that is entirely opaque to an LLM is that is entirely opaque to an LLM is that those are two radically different those are two radically different those are two radically different conceptual meanings of filling conceptual meanings of filling conceptual meanings of filling something. Turning our attention to something. Turning our attention to something. Turning our attention to Claude, it's not better. Every time I Claude, it's not better. Every time I Claude, it's not better. Every time I try to use it to accelerate my writing, try to use it to accelerate my writing, try to use it to accelerate my writing, I get back lines like, "We're going to I get back lines like, "We're going to I get back lines like, "We're going to look at two related toolkits and see look at two related toolkits and see look at two related toolkits and see what they buy you when you point them at what they buy you when you point them at what they buy you when you point them at a problem." Like, a problem." Like, a problem." Like, let's think about this for a minute. let's think about this for a minute. let's think about this for a minute. We're going to do what now? We're going We're going to do what now? We're going We're going to do what now? We're going to look at a toolkit, okay? And see what to look at a toolkit, okay? And see what to look at a toolkit, okay? And see what it buys you. We're bartering tools now. it buys you. We're bartering tools now. it buys you. We're bartering tools now. When you point it at When you What? Have When you point it at When you What? Have When you point it at When you What? Have you ever bought anything by pointing a you ever bought anything by pointing a you ever bought anything by pointing a toolkit at it? I know I haven't. I tried toolkit at it? I know I haven't. I tried toolkit at it? I know I haven't. I tried it at the local cafe and they told me, it at the local cafe and they told me, it at the local cafe and they told me, "Sir, put the wrench down or we're "Sir, put the wrench down or we're "Sir, put the wrench down or we're calling the cops." That's spanner and calling the cops." That's spanner and calling the cops." That's spanner and constabulary for my UK viewers. The constabulary for my UK viewers. The constabulary for my UK viewers. The number one giveaway of LLM writing is number one giveaway of LLM writing is number one giveaway of LLM writing is not the punchy ad copy sentences, the not the punchy ad copy sentences, the not the punchy ad copy sentences, the overuse of honestly and delve, the use overuse of honestly and delve, the use overuse of honestly and delve, the use of it's not X, it's Y comparisons, and of it's not X, it's Y comparisons, and of it's not X, it's Y comparisons, and rhetorical groupings of three. It's the rhetorical groupings of three. It's the rhetorical groupings of three. It's the absolute conceptual incoherence behind absolute conceptual incoherence behind absolute conceptual incoherence behind common word choices. But this gives rise common word choices. But this gives rise common word choices. But this gives rise to a problem, and quite a serious one at to a problem, and quite a serious one at to a problem, and quite a serious one at that given the accelerating literacy that given the accelerating literacy that given the accelerating literacy crisis. Namely, some people are also crisis. Namely, some people are also crisis. Namely, some people are also incoherent thinkers who mix metaphors. incoherent thinkers who mix metaphors. incoherent thinkers who mix metaphors. Even if LLMs were all trained on the Even if LLMs were all trained on the Even if LLMs were all trained on the Tevia and dogberries of their source Tevia and dogberries of their source Tevia and dogberries of their source material, people routinely mix material, people routinely mix material, people routinely mix metaphors. My wife and I do it for fun. metaphors. My wife and I do it for fun. metaphors. My wife and I do it for fun. Bingo. But what we do is the opposite of Bingo. But what we do is the opposite of Bingo. But what we do is the opposite of an LLM. Things like mixing, you set them an LLM. Things like mixing, you set them an LLM. Things like mixing, you set them up, I knock them down. And you opened up, I knock them down. And you opened up, I knock them down. And you opened the door, I just walked through it to the door, I just walked through it to the door, I just walked through it to get you set them up, I just walked get you set them up, I just walked get you set them up, I just walked through them. Like a sculpture garden. through them. Like a sculpture garden. through them. Like a sculpture garden. or you opened the door, I just knocked or you opened the door, I just knocked or you opened the door, I just knocked it down it down it down like a SWAT team. Anyway, the very real like a SWAT team. Anyway, the very real like a SWAT team. Anyway, the very real question is, do we need to determine question is, do we need to determine question is, do we need to determine whether it's an LLM or an idiot before whether it's an LLM or an idiot before whether it's an LLM or an idiot before discounting incoherent writing? I discounting incoherent writing? I discounting incoherent writing? I recently read an article in The Atlantic recently read an article in The Atlantic recently read an article in The Atlantic bemoning what else? Declining literacy, bemoning what else? Declining literacy, bemoning what else? Declining literacy, where I ended up spending a significant where I ended up spending a significant where I ended up spending a significant portion of it trying to determine why it portion of it trying to determine why it portion of it trying to determine why it was so bad. It turns out it was written was so bad. It turns out it was written was so bad. It turns out it was written by an undergrad and it read well, like by an undergrad and it read well, like by an undergrad and it read well, like an undergrad writing project barely an undergrad writing project barely an undergrad writing project barely worthy of a B. It of course overlooked worthy of a B. It of course overlooked worthy of a B. It of course overlooked one possible reason for declining rates one possible reason for declining rates one possible reason for declining rates of magazine reading. Magazines now of magazine reading. Magazines now of magazine reading. Magazines now publishing creative writing exercises publishing creative writing exercises publishing creative writing exercises from undergrads. Point is whether it was from undergrads. Point is whether it was from undergrads. Point is whether it was an LLM or not was a red herring. It was an LLM or not was a red herring. It was an LLM or not was a red herring. It was simply bad writing. And that points to a simply bad writing. And that points to a simply bad writing. And that points to a bigger issue. LLMs can actually be quite bigger issue. LLMs can actually be quite bigger issue. LLMs can actually be quite useful. They're particularly useful for useful. They're particularly useful for useful. They're particularly useful for boilerplate for first drafts of easily boilerplate for first drafts of easily boilerplate for first drafts of easily verifiable information, especially when verifiable information, especially when verifiable information, especially when you have to write similar documents you have to write similar documents you have to write similar documents repeatedly. for instance, explaining the repeatedly. for instance, explaining the repeatedly. for instance, explaining the concept of a phone before, of course, concept of a phone before, of course, concept of a phone before, of course, then editing it. They really shine when then editing it. They really shine when then editing it. They really shine when used for language study. They're large used for language study. They're large used for language study. They're large language models after all. I've got a language models after all. I've got a language models after all. I've got a whole segment of my upcoming course on whole segment of my upcoming course on whole segment of my upcoming course on selfdirected language study. That is on selfdirected language study. That is on selfdirected language study. That is on how to use LLMs to their maximum how to use LLMs to their maximum how to use LLMs to their maximum potential. For more on that, scan the QR potential. For more on that, scan the QR potential. For more on that, scan the QR code or go to code or go to code or go to www.languagejones.com/acelerator. www.languagejones.com/acelerator. www.languagejones.com/acelerator. and none of it is LLM generated because and none of it is LLM generated because and none of it is LLM generated because they would never in a million years they would never in a million years they would never in a million years think of it. They're also useful for think of it. They're also useful for think of it. They're also useful for things like read this draft. Are there things like read this draft. Are there things like read this draft. Are there any glaring omissions? That is finding any glaring omissions? That is finding any glaring omissions? That is finding things you left out, locating places things you left out, locating places things you left out, locating places that you can cut material. That's a lot that you can cut material. That's a lot that you can cut material. That's a lot of how I use them and so on. Everything of how I use them and so on. Everything of how I use them and so on. Everything everything though must be taken with a everything though must be taken with a everything though must be taken with a huge grain of salt and edited multiple huge grain of salt and edited multiple huge grain of salt and edited multiple times, even things that were correct in times, even things that were correct in times, even things that were correct in previous drafts. And full disclosure, previous drafts. And full disclosure, previous drafts. And full disclosure, I've used LLM in scripting for YouTube. I've used LLM in scripting for YouTube. I've used LLM in scripting for YouTube. In fact, I did an entire experiment to In fact, I did an entire experiment to In fact, I did an entire experiment to see whether my channel did better with see whether my channel did better with see whether my channel did better with content I wrote entirely on my own or content I wrote entirely on my own or content I wrote entirely on my own or workshopped with LLMs. The results are workshopped with LLMs. The results are workshopped with LLMs. The results are in another video, but spoilers, they in another video, but spoilers, they in another video, but spoilers, they might be depressing. I moved away from might be depressing. I moved away from might be depressing. I moved away from it after the experiment, even though LLM it after the experiment, even though LLM it after the experiment, even though LLM videos kind of do better because the videos kind of do better because the videos kind of do better because the mental burden of correcting incoherent mental burden of correcting incoherent mental burden of correcting incoherent metaphors was too much. I'd rather learn metaphors was too much. I'd rather learn metaphors was too much. I'd rather learn Steno, which I'm doing, than edit Steno, which I'm doing, than edit Steno, which I'm doing, than edit another paragraph from Gemini or Claude another paragraph from Gemini or Claude another paragraph from Gemini or Claude about what happens when you point about what happens when you point about what happens when you point overarching buckets or whatever. overarching buckets or whatever. overarching buckets or whatever. However, I may still use Claude from However, I may still use Claude from However, I may still use Claude from time to time to trim fat. And ever since time to time to trim fat. And ever since time to time to trim fat. And ever since having Gemini write my YouTube having Gemini write my YouTube having Gemini write my YouTube descriptions, my videos do better. I descriptions, my videos do better. I descriptions, my videos do better. I didn't know elements of the algorithm didn't know elements of the algorithm didn't know elements of the algorithm that Google's products did know. So, that Google's products did know. So, that Google's products did know. So, next time you're suspicious of LLM next time you're suspicious of LLM next time you're suspicious of LLM writing, while it can help to play LLM writing, while it can help to play LLM writing, while it can help to play LLM bingo, look for incoherent semantics. As bingo, look for incoherent semantics. As bingo, look for incoherent semantics. As an aside, let's take so next time you at an aside, let's take so next time you at an aside, let's take so next time you at the end of a video. A call to action is the end of a video. A call to action is the end of a video. A call to action is a hallmark of YouTube writing. I wrote a hallmark of YouTube writing. I wrote a hallmark of YouTube writing. I wrote this one myself, but the rhetorical move this one myself, but the rhetorical move this one myself, but the rhetorical move is just good writing for this format. is just good writing for this format. is just good writing for this format. And I would have said rhetorical move And I would have said rhetorical move And I would have said rhetorical move anyway, but now I'm aware that it sounds anyway, but now I'm aware that it sounds anyway, but now I'm aware that it sounds like Claude. If you like what I'm doing like Claude. If you like what I'm doing like Claude. If you like what I'm doing with the channel, you can support it on with the channel, you can support it on with the channel, you can support it on YouTube with superthanks or on Patreon YouTube with superthanks or on Patreon YouTube with superthanks or on Patreon at patreon.com/languagejones. at patreon.com/languagejones. at patreon.com/languagejones. Please leave me a comment. They are Please leave me a comment. They are Please leave me a comment. They are great for the algorithm. And subscribe great for the algorithm. And subscribe great for the algorithm. And subscribe if you haven't already. Until next time, if you haven't already. Until next time, if you haven't already. Until next time, happy hunting.